<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:pls="http://www.w3.org/2005/01/pronunciation-lexicon" xmlns:ssml="http://www.w3.org/2001/10/synthesis" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><head><title>Chapter 9</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook-epub.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="epubbooks.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Stylesheets Vsnapshot_9885"/><link rel="prev" href="14.xhtml" title="Chapter 8"/><link rel="next" href="16.xhtml" title="Chapter 10"/></head><body><header/><section class="chapter" title="Chapter 9" epub:type="chapter" id="id70116623112240"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h1 class="title">Chapter 9</h1></div></div></div><p>We went on board at once. Outside the harbour a light breeze had sprung
up from the north–east; I set to work and got the anchor short, and got
the main on her alone. Then with the engine ticking over and with Mollie
at the helm I broke her out and set the jib and foresail, and stood out
into the Bay.</p><p>I kept her off the wind and sailing free until I had the anchor catted
and all square forward; then I came aft and luffed her for the open sea.
Mollie was by me in the cockpit as we crossed the Bay; I taught her how
to steer the vessel on a wind and how to mark the trembling of the luff.
But all the glamour of that day was gone. It was still bright and sunny,
a calm sea and a steady sailing breeze: the fault was in ourselves.</p><p>Once she turned to me and said: “Please, Commander Stevenson. Shall I
have to go and tell the police about Edna and Billy now?”</p><p>I did not answer for a moment, but stood staring at the land down
Brixham way, still wreathed about with summer haze. And then I looked at
her, and smiled. “I hadn’t thought about it much,” I said. “One thing at
a time. In any case, we can’t do anything till we get home. Let’s forget
it all till then.”</p><p>And I stooped down and got a mackerel line from the locker, and showed
her how to reel it out, but she was listless and depressed. We caught a
couple close off Berry Head, but she was still distrait; I silenced the
flutter of the fish and cursed myself that we had gone ashore at all.
Better, I thought, if we had been content to look at Torquay from the
sea, and so we rounded Berry Head and bore away for home.</p><p>It was seven o’clock by the time we were back at moorings off my yard.
We came to them under power; to save time I had got the main down as we
passed the Battery. I made all square and got the dinghy up, and sculled
ashore with Mollie to the steps. In silence we drove up together through
the town; I sent her up to change when we got in, and went and had a
bath myself before we dined.</p><p>It was a little difficult at dinner with the servants there. I forget
what we talked about; I only remember that Mollie was restless and
uncomfortable. I fancy that I must have sat there talking at her easily,
a steady, even flow of meaningless conversation about ships and harbours
while I thought of other things. I could not make up my mind whether to
let Fedden know at once about this new development, as I should have
done. I was sick of the police and their ways. Moreover, I had no idea
how far her brother might be implicated in this thing. It would
certainly be better if he had a talk with Jenkinson before the police
got hold of him.</p><p>It was a cloudless summer evening. We finished our dessert and went out
on to the terrace, looking out over the Range. Rogers brought out our
coffee there, and then we were alone, and I could come straight to the
point that we wanted to discuss. “This girl Edna,” I remarked, and she
looked up quickly at me. “Do you know where she lives? Could you take me
to her, for example?”</p><p>She nodded. “It’s in Hammersmith, not far from the Palais, the one they
call Dreamland. She lives with her mother, that keeps a sweet shop in
Auburn Road. Just where the Fulham Palace Road goes off, like.”</p><p>“Do you think she’d know where Billy is?”</p><p>“Oh, yes. You see, he’s always writing to her, because he told me.” She
frowned a little. “I think she’s ever so silly,” she said impatiently.</p><p>I stood there, silent for a little, smoking my cigar and staring out
over the harbour mouth. If I went to Fedden with this information it was
probable that the police would get to Billy first, before I could. I
owed it to the girl to see that her brother got the best chance that he
could have with the law, and after the affair at Newton Abbot I had no
confidence whatever in the integrity of Fedden and the CID. It seemed
likely to me that if they got to Billy first he would be allowed to
commit himself to God knows what, in ignorance that there were
solicitors and barristers engaged for his defence and guidance. That
could not be allowed.</p><p>The other course would be to go and find him for myself, take him to
Jenkinson, and then present him to the police with Jenkinson to hold his
hand. That might be the better way, but it would mean the father and
mother of a row with Fedden….</p><p>I turned to her at last. “My dear,” I said, “I think we ought to go to
town and have a talk with this girl.”</p><p>“You mean we ought to try and find Billy?” she inquired. “I’m sure she’d
know, because he writes to her, you see.” She paused. “Would that be the
best thing for him?”</p><p>“I think so,” I replied. “I think we can probably help him.”</p><p>She said, a little hesitantly: “I was thinking we might just forget, and
pretend I hadn’t told you about Edna.” She raised her eyes to mine.
“Wouldn’t that do as well?”</p><p>I considered for a moment. There was a great deal to be said for that
line of action, but I couldn’t see that it would come out right. “The
police are sure to find him in the end,” I said. “It can be only a
matter of a few days now before he’s caught. I think we’d better find
him ourselves first, and get him into touch with Jenkinson.”</p><p>She sighed. “I know he wouldn’t be doing anything wrong, not really.”
And then she said: “Will we be going up to London, then?”</p><p>“I think so,” I replied. “I think we’d better go tomorrow.”</p><p>There was a little pause. “Just you and me?” she asked. “Staying
together in a hotel, or something of that?”</p><p>I met her eye, and laughed shortly. “That’s right,” I said. “In two
separate rooms. Two hotels, if you like.”</p><p>To my astonishment, she blushed at what I said. I stood and watched the
slow colour creep from her face down her neck towards her shoulders, and
she looked down and made a little pattern in the dust upon the terrace
parapet. “I wouldn’t want that,” she said quietly. “Two rooms is good
enough.”</p><p>I sheered off what seemed to be an unexpectedly difficult subject for
her, and we went walking down the garden in the evening light. She had
come to know each flower in my garden intimately, as from the bud; I
think my garden was the greatest pleasure that she had during the time
she stayed with me. We strolled round in the dusk and picked a few roses
for her room, till she was tired and ready for her bed. “I do get sleepy
ever so quick here,” she said. She stood and looked around the hills and
sea, dim and already cradled in the night. “It’s quiet here, and
nice….”</p><p>I went with her to the open windows of the library, and paused upon the
threshold as she went inside. “Good night, Mollie,” I said quietly.</p><p>She paused inside the window, half a yard from me. “Goodnight, Malcolm
dear,” she said. “It’s been ever such a lovely day. I think it’s been
the loveliest I’ve ever had.” And so she passed into the shadows of the
room, and I was left alone to smoke a cigarette before I, too, went up
to bed. I slept quite well, those days.</p><p>We went to town next day by train from Exeter. I knew very little of
hotels in London; it must have been some fifteen years since I stayed in
one. I have my club, and that is all that I have ever needed there. I
took her to one of those enormous, modernistic palaces, all glass and
stainless steel, that are springing up all over the West End; we had a
couple of adjoining rooms there on the third floor, and paid a pretty
penny for them. I hated the place right from the very first, but
everything was new to her.</p><p>“It’s awfully nice,” she breathed. “It’s like the Regal Palace in
Manchester, only much grander.”</p><p>We got there in the middle of the afternoon. She told me that Edna did
not leave work till six o’clock; if we called at the sweetshop at about
half past six we stood a good chance of finding her. We had our tea
uncomfortably in the painted lounge, while the band played somewhere out
of sight and one or two couples danced languidly in the hot air on an
enormous floor. I sipped the unpleasant beverage they served as tea, and
wished very much that I was in my club.</p><p>And presently we went to Hammersmith. We got there on top of a bus from
Piccadilly; at Hammersmith Broadway we got off, and Sixpence took me
walking for some way down the hot pavements till she stopped in front of
a little sweetshop and tobacconist.</p><p>“This is it,” she said, and we went in.</p><p>There was no one in the shop. It was small, and not very well stocked,
with a tobacco counter on one side and a sweet counter on the other. In
the back wall there was a door with a glass window in the upper half of
it; through the lace curtain one could see a sitting–room, and people at
the table. One of them got up and opened the door, and a fat untidy
woman came out into the shop and looked at us inquiringly.</p><p>“Good evening, Mrs Tinsey,” said Mollie. “I came to see if Edna was
here.”</p><p>The fat woman peered at her for a moment, and then raised her hands.
“Well,” she said, “if it isn’t Mary Gordon!” She raised her voice.
“Edna,” she cried. “Edna … here’s Mary Gordon come.”</p><p>From the back room there came a girl with fair, wavy hair, bobbed,
dressed in a white blouse and a dark skirt; a girl with rather a
determined look about her—Billy’s girl. “Oh, my dear!” she said to
Mollie, and ran at her and kissed her. “After all this time! Just
fancy!”</p><p>Mollie disengaged herself and turned to me. “Edna,” she said. “This is
my friend.” I murmured something that I thought was suitable, and Edna
said: “Pleased, I’m sure.”</p><p>We went through with them into the back room. It was chock full of
rather old and inexpensive furniture, and the table was laid for a meal.
In the grate I saw the teapot stewing down before the fire; the kipper
bones and cherry cake were still upon the table. We put aside their
hospitality with some difficulty by assuring them that we had had our
tea; I remember in particular that Mother was urgent to ‘run out and get
another kipper—it wouldn’t take but a moment’. We compounded with them
in the end by drinking cups of the stewed tea with cigarettes—‘stock,
my dear’—and I sat and made conversation with Mother about the state of
trade, particularly the sweetshop trade, while the girls talked. I
gathered from the things I overheard that they had been together in a
Palais somewhere in the south. I think that probably Edna had been an
amateur and a habitué of some Palais where my girl had worked.</p><p>The door bell rang, and Mother rose and went out into the shop to serve
a customer. As soon as she had gone, Mollie got straight to the business
we had come upon. “Say, Edna,” she inquired. “Have you heard anything
from Billy the last few weeks?” She paused. “I mean, that you’d be able
to tell me his address?”</p><p>Edna nodded. “I got a letter from him somewhere.” She rose, and went
hunting in a littered sort of escritoire in a corner of the room.
Finally she produced a little sheaf of letters from a drawer and opened
one. I saw Mollie looking at her keenly—so she kept his letters,
anyway.</p><p>“Gloucester,” she said. “That’s the last. Maybe it’d be three weeks
back.” She looked at the others. “The one before that was there, and the
one before that. The one before that was Birmingham, but that was
Christmas, that one.”</p><p>She glanced at Sixpence. “I’d say he was still at Gloucester with the
lorry, because he said he was working from there, like.” She turned over
the letter—“16 Smallpiece Lane was where he wrote from.”</p><p>I made a note of the address. “You didn’t see him lately?” asked Mollie.</p><p>The other girl considered for a moment. “He come here one evening last
month, maybe six weeks back. It was the night after the fire at Pinsons,
because I remember.”</p><p>Mollie persisted. “You haven’t seen him since, not to speak to?”</p><p>The other shook her head. “It ain’t no good him coming here,” she said
quietly. “I told him that.”</p><p>There was a silence after that. In the shop the bell was ringing
intermittently; a string of customers was passing in and out. “It didn’t
ought to be like that,” said Mollie slowly. She glanced up at the other
girl. “Wouldn’t it be any good—not ever? I mean, there never was any
other person for Billy, not like some.”</p><p>I moved a little way away, so far as one could do so in that narrow
room, and peered out through the curtain of the door that led in to the
shop. Behind me I heard Edna say: “It ain’t no good. Seems like he’s not
the man for me, Mollie. It isn’t that I want a Valentino, or anything of
that. Billy’s all right. But it’d have to be just right for me to marry
anyone, and it wouldn’t be just right with Billy—see? I’d rather go on
working at Slimlines. Maybe you think I’m silly over it.”</p><p>Mollie said: “Oh … I don’t know.”</p><p>Edna pursued her point. “You wouldn’t ever take a chap unless it was
just right, yourself.”</p><p>No reply came to that one, I remember; instead, there came a little
awkward pause. I turned back to the room. “It looks as if we’ll have to
go on down to Gloucester,” I said easily. “We can go down there tomorrow
and hunt him up.”</p><p>“That’s right,” said Edna, “16 Smallpiece Lane. That was where he wrote
from last time. I reckon he’s still there, maybe.”</p><p>There was nothing left for us to stay for, then. We made our farewells
and got out into the street after some time. When we were out of sight I
hailed a taxi, and we went driving round the Park till dinnertime,
talking of Billy and the people that we saw in the street. I must say
Mollie seemed to be more interested in the latter. This was a holiday to
her, and she was out to get the last ounce out of it.</p><p>We dined that night in the hotel, and danced a little afterwards to a
good band. Then we went to bed, both tired with the day.</p><p>Next morning we went down to Gloucester. We lunched there, in the best
hotel that I could find, and after lunch went on to look for Smallpiece
Lane. It proved to be a shabby little row of urban houses on the
outskirts of the town, that ran out and ended in a field, a pasture with
worn earth patches where the children of the neighbourhood had played.
We found the house and knocked; the door was opened by a thin, gaunt
woman in an apron.</p><p>“Is Mr Gordon in?” I asked.</p><p>“In the garidge,” she replied. “You’ll find him in the garidge.”</p><p>“Where is that?” I asked.</p><p>It was about two streets away; we went on there at once. It proved to be
a sort of yard behind a pair of open double gates, a place with an oily,
earthen floor and a tumble–down shed at one end of it. The doors of this
shed was open, and I saw the stem end of a lorry sticking out, and an
old Morris car.</p><p>We passed in at the gates, and crossed the yard towards the shed. There
was a man working on the engine of the lorry; at the sound of our
footsteps he straightened up and looked at us.</p><p>“Billy,” cried Molly. “Bill–ee….”</p><p>He was a stocky, pleasant–looking chap, not very tall. A shock of
reddish hair hung over his blue eyes; he was very dirty from his work.
He wore a soiled blue suit, torn at the back and greasy on the knees
with oil and mud. He came towards us, smiling and wiping his hands upon
a bit of rag.</p><p>“’Ullo!” he said. “And what brought <span class="emphasis"><em>you</em></span> down here, girl? This isn’t
half a surprise!”</p><p>I glanced at Sixpence, and she was glowing with pleasure. This brother
meant a lot to her. “Oh, Billy, this <span class="emphasis"><em>is</em></span> nice,” she said.</p><p>“Well, well, well, well, well,” he replied succinctly. “Not half, it
isn’t. But what brings you to Gloucester?”</p><p>She said: “We wanted to find you, Billy.” And then she added: “Oh,
Billy, this is my friend, Commander Stevenson.”</p><p>I put out a hand; he rubbed his own with his rag, and shook it genially.
“Pleased to meet you, sir,” he said. “Any friend of Mollie’s….”</p><p>The words died down upon his lips; I saw the laughter go out of his eyes
as he stood looking into my face. He let go my hand and stood there
staring at me, open mouthed; I stood and watched the colour drain out of
his face, and watched the apprehension creep into his eyes. In fifteen
seconds he had changed into a different man. “Strewth … ” he said
quietly, so quietly that I hardly heard what he had said.</p><p>Mollie said: “Billy … whatever is the matter?”</p><p>He pulled himself together. “Matter?” he said sharply. “Nothing’s the
matter. What d’you think?”</p><p>She stared at him. “You look as if you’d seen a ghost. Honest, you do.”</p><p>He forced a smile. “I did get a bit of a turn. Your friend, he’s just
the image of a man I met one time.” He laughed uneasily. “Funny, them
turns one gets….”</p><p>I had been thinking quickly, studying the weatherbeaten face, the shock
of red, untidy hair, the friendly blue eyes. I had never seen this man
before, but that might not be necessary. I smiled, and stood staring
straight at him. “Maybe you’ve seen me somewhere before,” I said
amicably. “Down Dartmouth way, perhaps.” I was watching closely, and I
saw him blink. “I drive a Bentley Six saloon.”</p><p>The colour had all gone from his face. “No,” he said at last. “I never
seen you before.” A child could have told that he was lying. He turned
suddenly on Mollie. “Here, girl,” he cried; “who is this bloke, and
where does he come from? What is he to you, eh?”</p><p>She pressed my arm. “Billy,” she said, a little hurt, “you didn’t ought
to speak like that. This is my friend.”</p><p>I stood there smiling at him grimly, still staring him in the face. “I
was able to help your sister when she got into a bit of trouble,” I
explained, “with the police. They found a burning motor lorry, and they
thought she might know who the driver was.”</p><p>There was a long, awkward silence after I said that. In the distance I
heard the children playing in the street outside, and the long clanking
of an engine shunting in some siding near at hand. He stood there like a
naughty schoolboy, looking down and scraping the earth with the toe of
his boot. “You’re to do with the police?” he inquired.</p><p>I shook my head. “Not me.”</p><p>“Billy,” said Mollie, “he isn’t with the police. He was ever so good
when I was in the station, and stopped them, and got a lawyer all the
way from London, and everything. Honest, he did.”</p><p>I wondered if that sentence was comprehensible to him. I doubt it, for
he raised his head sullenly, with an ugly flush. “Then if he’s not from
the police, what the hell does he want here? I do my business, and don’t
worry nobody.”</p><p>“What is your business, anyway?” I asked.</p><p>“Lorrying,” he said defiantly. “Now you clear out o’ this. I’ve had
enough of you. I’ve got my work to do.”</p><p>Sixpence said: “But, Billy…. You can’t just push us out like that.”</p><p>“Cheese it, girl,” he retorted, not unkindly. “You buzz off now, and
I’ll write to you.”</p><p>I moved to the Morris Cowley and sat down upon the running board, my
elbow resting on my knees. “The police have got your lorry,” I remarked,
“—the one that was burnt out. They know the number plates were false.
They found the three carpet sweepers that you left behind, two burnt up
in the lorry, and one behind the hedge. They’re looking for you all over
the country. They’ll have got your description by this time.” I paused
reflectively. “It was a good game, but it’s finished now.”</p><p>There was another long, uneasy silence. He stood there shuffling a
little with his feet, and shooting furtive glances at me as I sat there
on the running board. “I don’t see who you are,” he said at last.</p><p>I tried a long shot. “I’m the fellow who was in the car,” I said.</p><p>“Oh, chuck fooling,” he said irritably. “I know that.” He was silent for
a minute, and then he said: “What I want to know is—what’s the game?”</p><p>Mollie was standing silent a little way away from us, and leaving the
whole thing to me. I sat there for a minute staring out across the
littered, oily yard, watching the smoke from a bonfire in a rubbish pit
curling lazily up into a light blue, summer sky. My long shot had gone
home all right. “There’s no game,” I replied. “No game at all.”</p><p>I glanced up at him, standing over me. “When you left that lorry burning
on the road, the police were after you like a knife. They couldn’t find
you, but they got to know that Miss Gordon was your sister, and they
took her down to Dartmouth to question her about you. I came in then,
and got a lawyer to look after her.”</p><p>“That’s right, Billy,” put in Sixpence eagerly. “And all the way from
London, too. It was ever so good of the Commander.”</p><p>I smiled a little, wondering idly where she had picked that up. Only the
servants call me the Commander and the men down at the yard. She must
have picked it up from Rogers or one of the maids…. Then I came
back to earth.</p><p>I met his eyes. “I’m here to tell you that the police are looking for
you now,” I said. “You haven’t got a chance. You can’t even get out of
the country, now. If you stay here they’ll get you in a day or two. And
if you run, they’ll get you in a week.”</p><p>He burst out: “But I ain’t <span class="emphasis"><em>done</em></span> nothing!” He stared at me. “Nothing,
save lorrying for them, and leaving me lorry on the road. Them things
aren’t crimes—they can’t do nothing to you for that. What do they want
with me?”</p><p>I motioned him to the step of the lorry opposite me. “Sit down,” I said.
“There’s no sense standing up all day.” And Mollie came and sat beside
me on the Cowley running board, and I said:</p><p>“They want you because they want the other lot. They can’t find out
anything about them—yet—but they’ll get you all right.”</p><p>He repeated sullenly: “I ain’t done nothing wrong….”</p><p>Sixpence stirred irritably beside me. “Don’t act so soft,” she said.
“The Commander’s all for us, not for the police or anyone. Why don’t you
tell him what’s been going on?”</p><p>He looked a little foolish, laughed, and pushed back his cap to scratch
his head with an oily hand. “Reckon he knows most of it,” he said,
embarrassed.</p><p>“I’d like to hear what happened when we met before,” I remarked.</p><p>And cutting short his tale, it came to this. He had picked up two
foreigners near Newton Abbot by an assignation, and had driven on down
to Dartmouth with them in the empty lorry. They arrived on the shore
road at about one o’clock in the morning and stopped a few hundred yards
up the road from the corner where my car was subsequently found, towards
the town. From there his companions made their signal to the sea and got
the reply. His two companions then went down to the shore, and Gordon
stayed by his lorry. He had no part in handling the cargo.</p><p>About half an hour later the two foreigners came back, carrying the
first case; behind them came two men from the ship, carrying another
one. One of these men was a young Englishman that he had seen before on
these occasions; he thought that he had to do with the vessel that they
used.</p><p>It was at that point that the car appeared.</p><p>They saw the headlights on the road two or three miles away; it was
clear to them that the car was being driven very fast. As a
precautionary measure they covered up the cases in the lorry, two of
them got inside, and Gordon lifted the bonnet as if with engine trouble.
But the car stopped short of them. They heard it come along at a great
pace, and in the still night they heard the squeal of brakes as it drew
up a quarter of a mile away. Then the headlights stopped motionless upon
the road, and they stood staring at each other in consternation.</p><p>Presently two of the men detached themselves, got over into the fields,
and made a wide circuit in the darkness towards the strange car to
investigate. Gordon stood waiting by his lorry; after a time the
Englishman slipped off and went direct down to the beach.</p><p>That was all he saw, but he told me what had happened. “When they got
close they seen a man walking from the car down to the beach,” he said.
“Walking quiet like, over the grass, he was.” They went close enough to
the car to see that there was nobody else there, and then they followed
on the stranger’s heels down to the beach. “They took him for a
coastguard of some sort. They come up behind him down there somewhere,
and slugged him proper,” he explained. “With a pistol, with the handle,
like.”</p><p>I felt Mollie stir beside me, and I smiled. “That’s right,” I said. I
paused a minute, and inquired: “What happened then?”</p><p>He laughed. “They weren’t half in a stew.” The next thing he knew was
that they came up from the beach to the lorry, all three of them,
together with a girl. He had not seen the girl before; he thought that
she must have come upon the boat. They were carrying what seemed to be a
corpse, and in the party there were bitter words passing. At the lorry
they laid the body down and the girl at once began attending to it,
removing and renewing a rough, bloodstained bandage on the head. The man
was quite unconscious.</p><p>They stood there for some time wrangling over what was to be done, and
then they went off to view the car up the road, still arguing as they
went. And by the time they got there it had begun to dawn on them that
there was no significance at all in what had happened at the beach; the
man was quite alone, and he was very drunk. Actually, there had been no
necessity to strike him down at all; if they had humoured him he would
have gone away and would have forgotten the whole thing next day. But
there he was, drunk and unconscious, and with a serious head injury. A
well–dressed fellow, too—possibly somebody of importance.</p><p>They’d got themselves into a pretty mess.</p><p>It was the young Englishman who suggested that they should stage a motor
crash. He argued, rather forcibly, that the fellow was so drunk that
he’d probably have piled his car up anyway before he reached his home,
and that it was just as likely to have happened here as anywhere. Nobody
had any better solution to their difficulty to suggest, and so they set
about it.</p><p>Gordon drove the car a hundred yards along the road to the corner and
transversely into the ditch in skidding attitude. With the assistance of
a crowbar they contrived to turn it over on its side into the hedge—a
big job, for it was a heavy car. They went round it with the crowbar
then, breaking the glass and damaging the wings, but it was the young
Englishman who thought of kicking through the roof above the driver’s
seat. They did the best they could. Taking it all round, I think they
must have made a rotten job of it; if any serious inquiry had been made
it must have been obvious at once that was no real crash. But no inquiry
of that sort was necessary, I suppose. The fellow’s habits were well
known.</p><p>And finally they brought along the body and laid it in the car. The man
was still breathing heavily, and the bleeding from the scalp had
stopped. The girl insisted that the position should be such that the
head was raised a little, and they had some difficulty over this.</p><p>So they finished the unloading of the boat and came away. The man was
still in a deep coma when they left, and it was close on dawn. They
found out two days later that he had been found a couple of hours
afterwards; he was in a nursing home and likely to get over it. It
seemed a very satisfactory solution to what might have been a nasty
incident.</p><p>Gordon laughed, a little ruefully. “They wasn’t half pleased when they
heard that,” he said. “Well out of it, they thought they was….”</p><p>I nodded slowly. “Would you recognise the man again?”</p><p>There was a little silence in the yard. He hesitated, and then said: “I
would, sir. It was you.”</p><p>“Yes,” I said absently, “I suppose it was.” I was thinking of the
further links I wanted to get out of him and for the moment I was
silent, till I said:</p><p>“How did that lorry come to go on fire?”</p><p>He was annoyed. “Silliest thing you ever saw,” he said. “I never seen
such!” He glanced at me, irrepressible. “But coo! she didn’t half flare
up! Filling up, it was. I’d got the filler off the tank and pouring in
from the can, and another can unstoppered beside me. An’ then one of
them went to light a fag.” He laughed. “She went off with such a puff I
fell backwards off the running board into the road, an’ dropped the can
and petrol over everything. You never seen such a mess! They fellows was
out of the back like a knife and there she was. We just couldn’t do
anything with her.”</p><p>I wrinkled my brows. “You had a load on board?” I asked. “I suppose it
happened after you’d left the boat?”</p><p>“Oh, aye,” he said. “We got the most of it off her before it got too
bad—all the cartridges and that, but some of the stuff we had to leave.
I had the little Morris with me that trip”—he indicated the car beside
us—“and we piled it all into her till she was down on her springs. Then
she was full, an’ still a case or two left, an’ we put them down behind
the hedge and went on in the Morris. But I reckon they must have been
found, because they was gone next day. Still, I don’t see what else we
could have done….”</p><p>I asked him where the stuff was going to, and to my surprise he told me
readily. He took it to Trepwll in Breconshire, about thirty miles north
of Cardiff. That was a run of about a hundred and sixty miles, which
usually took ten hours or so. His garage in Gloucester was handy for
this run, and he eked out the business of these journeys with a certain
amount of local work of various descriptions.</p><p>He told me that in all he had made five trips. I had blundered into the
second landing, and his lorry had been burnt upon the last. The lorry
that he had now was another one, which he had purchased second–hand as a
replacement. He was overhauling it for the next journey.</p><p>“When is that?” I asked.</p><p>He did not know. It would be in about a week’s time; he only got two
days’ notice of each trip. They paid him forty pounds a trip—not bad,
he said, for twenty–four hours’ work. For this he promised secrecy.</p><p>He deposited his loads at a farm about two miles from Trepwll. Sometimes
he had passengers upon these journeys and these were mostly foreigners;
once he had gone alone. He did not know the names of any of the men that
he had met, and he had resolutely kept his eyes shut upon the nature of
the business. He was content to obey orders while things went well; in
the event of any trouble he would look after himself, and get out of it
as best he could. He got his orders from a man that he knew as Mr
Palmer, who came to him personally before each trip.</p><p>That was the substance of the tale he had to tell. I liked the man, I
must say; if he was a rogue he was a cheerful one. To him the whole
affair had been a matter of business and no more; he had made good
money, and he wasn’t one to worry about ethics. He seemed to have no
knowledge of the purpose of the guns, or interest. In fact, he told me
that he had not known the nature of his cargoes till the lorry was burnt
out, but it made no difference when he did discover it. His business was
lorrying.</p><p>“Your next trip’s in about a week’s time, then?” I asked.</p><p>“That’s right, sir,” he replied. He sat there musing for a minute. “I
don’t know as I’ll go on that one now. I don’t want to get mixed up with
no police….”</p><p>Mollie said; “Oh, Billy, you might have thought of that before!”</p><p>He looked up at her, and grinned, a little sheepishly. “Strewth,” he
said, “I never thought of it like that.”</p><p>It seemed to me that there was information here that Fedden and his
policemen ought to have, and that I could not allow this thing to be
suppressed. I was equally certain that Jenkinson should be with this man
when he made his statement to the police. As far as I could see it, the
extent of his wrong–doing would be well covered by a ten–bob fine; they
might not take that view of things at Scotland Yard. Jenkinson must be
there. I sat and thought about it for a minute, till at last I said:</p><p>“The police will be here any day now—you’ll have to be prepared for
that. You’ll have to tell them all that you’ve told me.”</p><p>He shifted uneasily. “That’s no way to go on. I got good money to keep
my mouth shut.” And then he burst out again: “I ain’t <span class="emphasis"><em>done</em></span> nothing!”</p><p>It was Mollie who replied to that. “Oh, don’t keep on like that,” she
said impatiently. “You been smuggling guns into the country, that’s what
you been doing, like the Commander says. It’s no good you kidding
yourself that way.”</p><p>He scratched his head unhappily. “I dunno what to do,” he said.</p><p>It took about an hour’s hard talking to persuade him that our course was
best. But we left that night for London, all the three of us, and by ten
o’clock next morning I had him closeted with Jenkinson.</p></section><footer/></body></html>
