<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:pls="http://www.w3.org/2005/01/pronunciation-lexicon" xmlns:ssml="http://www.w3.org/2001/10/synthesis" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><head><title>Chapter 10</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook-epub.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="epubbooks.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Stylesheets Vsnapshot_9885"/><link rel="prev" href="15.xhtml" title="Chapter 9"/><link rel="next" href="17.xhtml" title="Chapter 11"/></head><body><header/><section class="chapter" title="Chapter 10" epub:type="chapter" id="id70116623108100"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h1 class="title">Chapter 10</h1></div></div></div><p>I don’t think I need go through in detail the examination which was made
of Billy in London. I got him in to Jenkinson, and when we had satisfied
ourselves that he could tell us no more than he had told me at
Gloucester, we sent for Norman. I had the pleasure of ringing up that
gentleman myself, from Jenkinson’s office.</p><p>I got on to him at Scotland Yard. “This is Commander Stevenson this
end,” I said. “Is that Major Norman?”</p><p>“Speaking,” he replied.</p><p>“Good morning,” I said courteously. “I’m speaking from Mr Jenkinson’s
office—you’ve met Mr Jenkinson, haven’t you? Oh, yes, I was forgetting.
We’ve got a young chap here that you might like to have a word or two
with—I should say, that Mr Jenkinson sees no objection. The driver of
the lorry. What? Yes, the driver of the lorry that was burnt out. Miss
Gordon’s brother.”</p><p>He burst out: “You say you’ve got him in your office? How long have you
had him there?”</p><p>“Oh … let’s see, now,” I replied. “I saw him first in Gloucester
yesterday, and brought him up last night. We’ve examined what he has to
say, and there really seems to be no reason why he shouldn’t make a
statement to you, if it would help you in your work in any way. Mr
Jenkinson will be present all the time, of course, to guard his
interests.”</p><p>He said angrily: “See here, Mr Stevenson, if that man gets away I shall
hold you responsible for his escape.”</p><p>“Certainly,” I said. “Do I understand that you would like to see him? If
so, I’ll ask him to wait here for a few minutes.”</p><p>“I’ll be round right now,” he said.</p><p>“Oh, that’s excellent,” I said pleasantly. “In about a quarter of an
hour’s time? I think that will be quite convenient for him.”</p><p>I didn’t get an answer to that one. The line was suddenly cut off; I
think he must have been in something of a hurry.</p><p>He came in a remarkably short time, and with him was a shorthand man. He
was inclined to be a little curt with me, so far as I remember—I can’t
imagine why. We went through into a sort of Board Room next door to
Jenkinson’s office, and sat down round a table while Norman asked his
questions.</p><p>There was nothing new. He didn’t know any more than he had told me.
Norman pressed him particularly upon the source of his instructions, but
he knew nothing other than that the man he knew as Palmer turned up at
Gloucester at his garage or his lodgings from time to time and left
messages for him. It was from this man that he got his money after each
trip, forty pounds in treasury notes. He had no means of finding him at
other times. On the morning of each trip the man turned up at the garage
and travelled down with him upon the lorry.</p><p>He gave a pretty full description of this man, but there was precious
little in it to take hold of. He described a man of forty–five or fifty
years of age, with grey hair and rather refined speech.</p><p>For the destination of his loads, however, he was able to supply clear
evidence. He took the stuff to a farmhouse in Breconshire, not far from
Trepwll; at this place it was unloaded and carried into a barn. He could
identify this farm clearly, though he did not know its name. He gave
such positive directions as to how you reached it from Trepwll as would
identify it beyond all doubt.</p><p>The statement came to an end at last. Norman sent away his stenographer
to get it typed, and it was arranged that Jenkinson should take Gordon
down that afternoon to Scotland Yard to go over it and sign his
deposition. Norman departed then, and I took Mollie and her brother out
to lunch, at Mr Lyons’ Corner House.</p><p>We took him back to Jenkinson at about three o’clock; together they went
off to Scotland Yard. Mollie and I took a taxi back to the hotel. She
was tired, and a little bewildered by the events of the day.</p><p>“I do think it’s awful to get mixed up with the police,” she said. She
had a wholesome dread of the constabulary.</p><p>I got a telephone message late that afternoon, summoning me to Sir David
Carter at 10.30 the next morning. I wondered who was going to be there.
I didn’t see what they wanted me for; if ever I was resolved upon one
thing it was that I was taking no more part in police affairs. I’d had
my fill of that; from this time onwards I was going to devote myself
merely to the protection of Mollie and her brother against their
irregularities.</p><p>Gordon turned up soon after tea; little of any consequence had happened
at the Yard. I gave him over to Mollie for the evening, saw that they
had plenty of money, and left them to their own devices; I judged that
they would talk more freely if I were away. I dined that evening at the
club, and took a hand of bridge. By the time that I got back to the
hotel they had gone up to bed.</p><p>Mollie opened the door as I went into my room; her room was next to
mine. She was wearing a kimono and her hair was down her back; in the
dim light of the passage she seemed to me to be most beautiful. “I’m
glad you’re back,” she said, a little oddly. “Billy and I, we had a
lovely time. We went to the pictures. But it’s dreadfully expensive
here.”</p><p>I smiled. “I had a bit of an expensive evening, too,” I said. “I was
playing cards.”</p><p>“You wouldn’t like a cup of tea, or a whisky or anything like that,
would you?” she asked. “I mean, I’ll put on my frock, and we’ll get a
waiter if you like.”</p><p>“Don’t worry about the frock,” I said. “You’re much nicer like that.”</p><p>She coloured a little, and told me not to be so awful.</p><p>“No, I don’t want anything,” I said. “Just bed.”</p><p>There was a little pause.</p><p>“Goodnight, Commander Stevenson,” she said.</p><p>“Goodnight, Mollie,” I replied, and went into my room.</p><p>Next day I went down to the Yard and saw Sir David Carter. Norman was
with him in his room, and Fedden; they must have got him up from
Dartmouth in a hurry. They offered me a chair at a long table; Sir David
left his desk, and he settled to a sort of conference.</p><p>He started off: “I should like to begin by offering my thanks, Commander
Stevenson, for the services which you have rendered in this business.
Colonel Fedden and Major Norman tell me that we owe a great deal to you,
in securing the evidence of the young woman Gordon, and of her brother.
I should like you to feel that we appreciate your help.”</p><p>I had come prepared to hold my own in any bickering, but this old man
had rather spiked my guns. “I’m interested in those two,” I said at
last. “They’re a good type, and I’d like to see them clear of any
trouble.”</p><p>He inclined his head. “Exactly so. I hope sincerely that it will not be
necessary for us to make any trouble for them. At the moment we do not
anticipate that sort of difficulty.”</p><p>“I’m glad to hear it,” I replied. “After what I’ve seen I should defend
them with all the resources in my power,” and I glanced from the old man
to Norman on his other side.</p><p>Sir David Carter coughed. “Leaving that aspect of the matter for the
moment,” he said, “I thought it would perhaps be best to send for you,
Commander Stevenson, before we communicate our proposals to the man,
William Gordon. Major Norman informs me that you have considerable
influence with both of them; as the procedure which we have decided on
is of some delicacy, I think it right that we should put it to you
first.”</p><p>I thrust my chair back from the table. “See here,” I said; “I’m out of
this. I’m sorry, but I can’t do any more for you.”</p><p>There was a little pause. “Nevertheless,” remarked Sir David, “I should
like you to hear what we propose.”</p><p>I relaxed my attitude. “I should be very glad to,” I replied. “But I can
take no part in any of your plans.”</p><p>He nodded. “We should not wish you to.”</p><p>He picked up a pen holder from the tray before him and began playing
with it absently, a favourite trick of his. “You will have gathered the
position for yourself,” he said. “We now know the destination of the
guns, and a great deal more about the manner in which they are
introduced into the country. We do not know the organisers of the
enterprise. We do not know the nature of the ship that brings them,
though the evidence of Sir Philip Stenning throws a little light on
that. We do know that the guns are taken to Trepwll, and from that we
can deduce, without a great deal of investigation, who they are intended
for.”</p><p>He raised his head and looked at me. “There is trouble in that district,
as you know.”</p><p>I did know. It was not far from the Glanferis mines, and the
Conservative papers had been full of the Glanferis troubles for the last
three months. The coal trouble had virtually closed the pits, and there
was much labour unrest. There had been riots and isolated policemen had
been beaten up; the papers put this down to Communist incitement. On the
eve of the election, with the poll not five weeks off, Glanferis had
assumed a disproportionate importance; its new value had been sedulously
worked up. Glanferis was a front–page story at that time.</p><p>The old man was staring straight at me, still playing with his pen. “I
want you to visualise the whole situation, to see it from the broadest
point of view. If we go straight now to Trepwll we shall find arms. In
that event, we might be forced to the incredible conclusion that the
Welsh miners in that district are preparing for an armed revolt against
the Crown.”</p><p>I met his eyes. “You find that quite incredible?” I asked.</p><p>“Absolutely,” he said quietly.</p><p>Norman broke in. “We have the most complete reports upon the situation
in Glanferis,” he remarked. “This comes as a complete surprise. We
cannot imagine what section of the disputants could find it to their
interest to arm their men. The use of force against the Crown cuts clean
across the policy of every party in that district. It would mean
political disaster for the party that attempted it. It’s inconceivable.”</p><p>“Still,” I said, “there the guns are. You can’t get away from that.”</p><p>Sir David sighed. “Yes, there they are.” I was a little sorry for him in
his great responsibility.</p><p>He pursued his discourse. “I am taking it upon myself to delay the
seizure of those guns,” he said quietly. “I would not have you think
that we are shirking from our duty on account of the election, for fear
of the effect that may be produced upon the electorate if guns should be
discovered in Glanferis. We are rather concerned to ensure that when the
matter is made public for the first time, the whole story shall be quite
complete. I would not bring it out in bits and pieces. I want the
directing intelligence behind those guns. I want evidence which will
show for what reason they are there—in comparison with that evidence
the guns are nothing.” He turned to me. “This country stands on the eve
of a poll, Commander Stevenson. We seem to be in the unfortunate
position of having to produce a bombshell for the public, another
Zinovieff letter which may change the whole course of the election. If
we have to do that we must have solid facts behind us—not merely guns
and theories as to what they were intended for. The public must be told
the truth of this affair if it be told anything at all.”</p><p>“I’m with you there,” I said. “Give the country the whole truth of
whatever may be going on, and let it do what it thinks best. It won’t go
wrong.”</p><p>He inclined his head. “Exactly so.”</p><p>Fedden stirred. “That leads us to the man Gordon,” he said. It was the
first time he had spoken.</p><p>I raised my eyebrows. “How does he come into it?”</p><p>Sir David Carter said: “We propose to use him for the next few days for
information purposes.”</p><p>I was about to speak, but he stopped me. “I will tell you first what we
propose. We shall send him back to his work at Gloucester, keeping him
quietly under observation there. We shall give him to understand that no
proceedings will be taken for the slight irregularities of which he may
be guilty, on the condition that he supplies us with the information
that we want. We want the man Palmer, primarily. Next, we want
information about the next landing of arms to enable us to make a
capture of the boat. Given those two, I think we shall secure sufficient
evidence for us to put the matter to the public for its judgment.”</p><p>He paused. “I would not have you think that we enjoy these methods that
we have to use,” he said a little sternly, looking straight at me. “Our
business is to catch criminals, and to find out the truth.”</p><p>I nodded. “I appreciate that point.”</p><p>I sat and thought about it for a minute, and there was a silence in the
room. Their attitude was reasonable; it was the only way to get the
information quickly that would settle this affair. Billy must go back to
Gloucester and deliver the man Palmer over to the police.</p><p>I saw now why they wanted me. They were no fools, and they knew that I
had influence with Mollie. They could not make the man go back to
Gloucester if he did not want to; they could not make him betray his
associates. They were relying on Mollie and myself to influence him that
that would be the right thing to do; they must have seen that threats
would be of no avail. There was good stuff in that chap.</p><p>I could not deny that they were right, nor could I deny them help. The
matter was too serious for that. Against my will they’d got me into it
again.</p><p>I raised my head. “And you want me to do … what?”</p><p>It was exactly as I had thought. They had not seen Gordon or put this
thing to him; they wanted me to do that. They wanted me to represent to
him that the police were his friends, only anxious to help him in his
difficulties and to guide him out of the mess that he had got into. I
was to have a quiet talk with him with Mollie, and then to take him
along and introduce him to one or two plain–clothes men the next day.
Then he was to go back to Gloucester, and wait for developments.</p><p>“There isn’t any danger in it,” Norman said. “I can assure you that it’s
a procedure which is often used.”</p><p>I stared at him. “I am quite ready to believe it,” I remarked, a little
grimly.</p><p>I turned to Carter. “I will see what I can do,” I said. “You understand
that I can promise nothing—nothing whatsoever. I’ll put it to them, and
I’ll telephone to you this afternoon.”</p><p>I left the Yard and went back to the hotel. Mollie was out somewhere
with her brother—shopping, I suppose. I waited in the lounge for them.
They came in presently and we had lunch, and after lunch I took them up
into my bedroom for our talk.</p><p>I put it to them as fairly as I could. I told them all that I had heard
at Scotland Yard, and I told them what the police wanted to find out. I
explained as clearly as I could the political reasons underlying the
whole thing; I think that Billy understood that more than Mollie did. He
was accustomed to reading newspapers. I told them, frankly, that I
thought they ought to help; that what the police were asking was a
reasonable thing. In his small way Billy had helped to get the country
into some sort of a mess, and it was up to him to help to get it out
again.</p><p>“I dunno what to say,” he said. “It don’t seem right to me … .”</p><p>But Mollie broke in there. “Don’t act so soft,” she said. “The Commander
knows what’s best….”</p><p>Eventually we all went round to Jenkinson, and put the thing to him. He
could not help us very much, beyond the general advice that where the
police demands were reasonable they should be met so far as possible. He
was inclined to think that their demands were reasonable now, and that
our best course was to fall in with their plans.</p><p>So we agreed, and Billy was content to go. I rang up Norman and arranged
for Billy to visit Scotland Yard that afternoon, and to go down to
Gloucester that same evening; it was obviously desirable that he should
get back there as soon as possible. Mollie and I escorted him to
Scotland Yard and said goodbye to him; he was diffident and uneasy in
his new rôle. I was uneasy, too, but I could see no other way of
handling the situation.</p><p>I arranged with him that I would take his sister back to Dartmouth and
we would wait there till this affair was over. As soon as he was free he
would come down to us there.</p><p>And so we left him, and went back to the hotel.</p><p>Mollie was absent minded and uneasy all that night. We dressed and
dined, and I took her out to a revue; she enjoyed it, but her mind was
never very far away from Billy. She kept on asking little, difficult
questions of the work that we had sent him on—was it often done that
way, and was it ever dangerous? I answered these to the best of my
ability and reassured her, I suppose; I wish I could have reassured
myself. Not one of our better evenings, taking all in all, and I was
glad to go to bed.</p><p>We took a morning train to Exeter next day, and Adams met us with the
car. I drove and Adams sat behind; it was a warm and sunny afternoon. As
we got on the road our spirits rose: the Yard seemed very far away from
Devonshire that day. We went down through Newton Abbot and Totnes, with
Mollie lighting cigarettes for me, and marvelling at the automatic
lighter as it glowed.</p><p>We got to Dartmouth just in time for tea; it was good to be back home
again. I don’t like London, and though one goes up there from time to
time on business or for boredom, I am always best pleased with my own
place, with the sea and with my work. This afternoon as we sat having
tea together in the library, with Mollie prattling away of the things
that she had done and things that she would like to do in London, I
remember thinking what a very good place home was.</p><p>And I remember thinking what a dreary place my home had been before the
girl had come to stay with me. I remember wondering what I should do
when this was over and she went away.</p><p>We went down into the garden after tea and picked some roses for her
room; she loved her flowers. And then we went a little way down the
fuzzy, till we stopped where I had had a seat put up, and we sat there
in the evening sun while I smoked a pipe, looking out over the Range and
the wide sea. And as we sat there a vessel came into sight from the
west, a little cutter under all plain sail, making for the Range and
Dartmouth on the evening flood.</p><p>“Hullo,” I said, and pointed with my pipe. “There’s Stenning.”</p><p>It was only four days since we sailed together, but it seemed much more
to us. Stenning had been on a short pleasure cruise while we had been in
town, and here he was again, slipping in quietly to his moorings off my
quay. “They’ll probably stay for the night with us,” I said. “They won’t
fly back tonight.”</p><p>She glanced up at me. “Couldn’t we go down and meet them?” she inquired.
“I mean, it might be nice for them if we did that?”</p><p>And so we walked back up the fuzzy to the stable, took the Bentley, and
went down to my yard. We got there before the <span class="emphasis"><em>Irene</em></span>; I took the yard
punt and we went out to the moorings on the calm evening water to wait
until they came. Near the mooring buoy I pulled in oars, and we sat and
drifted, smoking and talking till they came.</p><p>The vessel came slowly into sight, more or less becalmed among the
hills, drifting slowly into moorings on the flood with the light airs.
Stenning is like me, he never motors, if he can avoid it, in a yacht.
Joan was at the helm, anxiously striving with the erratic airs; the
vessel came slowly to us, with Stenning busy forward with the gear. He
dropped the foresail and set up his topping lift, then with the boat
hook in his hand he turned and hailed us as they drifted slowly close.</p><p>“Been far?” I asked.</p><p>“Only to Salcombe and the Yealm,” he said. “This is a holiday, this is.”</p><p>He caught his mooring deftly and pulled the chain on board; the vessel
turned slowly and swung to the tide. I pulled the punt alongside and we
went on board.</p><p>I went forward to help Stenning with the main; Mollie went below with
Joan. “You’re not going back tonight, are you?” I asked. “I’ve got a lot
I want to talk to you about.”</p><p>He cocked an eye at me. “About this other business?”</p><p>I nodded.</p><p>“Right,” he said; “we’ll stay and drink your port for you.” Stenning has
a practical mind.</p><p>We gathered up their belongings and transferred them to the punt, and
squared up the vessel for the night. One of the advantages of a shipyard
is that you can bring your yacht in and leave her more or less as she
arrives, secure in the knowledge that she will be properly attended to.
We got the sail covers on and locked the cabin up, and then we were
ready to depart.</p><p>Dinner that evening was a pretty cheerful meal. Joan and Stenning were
fit and sunburned with their little cruise, and in good spirits. I was
surprised and pleased, too, to see how well Mollie was going with them.
She had lost her shyness and was chatting to them freely about her life
up in the North, with little anecdotes about the people she had met and
places she had seen. But she didn’t like the North, she said. The South
was ever so much nicer, with the sea and everything.</p><p>She talked a lot about the sea. She was always wanting to know things
about it—why the tide went up and down the coast instead of coming in
and out, and whether seagulls went south for the winter, and how far out
to sea they went. Funny questions of that sort that seemed inspired by
nothing but sheer interest—and she never forgot anything I told her in
that way. I found her very quick.</p><p>I sat with Stenning that evening when the ladies had gone out, and over
the port I told him all that had happened in the last four days. Rather
to my surprise, I found him seriously concerned about Gordon. He has had
more experience of the rough–and–tumble side of life than I have had,
and he was by no means certain that the police had power to protect
informers from the remainder of the gang. He pointed out what would
happen to Gordon if this thing had happened in America; he would have
been ‘taken for a ride’, and nobody would be able to do much about it.
Certainly this was not America, but the ways of gunmen were becoming
universal in the world. He thought that we were taking a considerable
risk.</p><p>He was intensely interested in the whole affair. “I must go back
tomorrow,” he said. “I’m tied up with an appointment that I’ve got to
keep. But if it’s any help to you, I’ll come down for a day or two after
that—when this next landing’s due to be made.” He paused. “I don’t
think I’d impress it upon Joan,” he said. “I’d like to see <span class="emphasis"><em>Irene</em></span> on
the slip, and I’d put it that way.”</p><p>I told him that that would help a lot. It would be good to have Stenning
by my side if there was any trouble coming, and it was good of him to
make the offer.</p><p>It was still light when we went through into the next room. I had some
matters that I wanted to discuss with Joan, and so I cut her out from
Stenning and Mollie, and we went walking down the garden in the dusk,
talking of little, casual things, until we reached the rose garden and
sat a little on the stone balustrade looking away up river to the town.
I came to the end of my trivialities down there, and blurted out:</p><p>“I came down here because I wanted to talk to you about marrying.”</p><p>There was a little silence after I said that; she did not reply at once.
In the dim light her cigarette glowed softly as she drew. She blew the
smoke out and inquired:</p><p>“You’re not married now, are you, Malcolm?”</p><p>I shook my head. “Not yet. I hope I’m going to be soon.” I stood and
eyed her in the dusk. “You’re the only one of my relations that I give a
damn about, and I’d somehow rather that you knew about it first.”</p><p>“It’s this girl here, is it?” she asked.</p><p>“I shall be asking her if she will marry me, quite soon,” I said.</p><p>Joan didn’t say anything to that, and her silence seemed like a rebuke
to me. I wanted to explain to her, and so I said: “Even with all the
money that I’ve got to give them, the sort of girl I want never falls
for me. That’s idealism, I suppose. Seems to me that the present–day
girl has a higher set of ideals than ever before—and I should know.
I’ve tried no less than six times since the war, and failed, with all my
money.” I laughed. “I must say, it’s been an interesting experience.
Most instructive.”</p><p>Joan leaned forward suddenly, and touched my arm as I laughed. “Poor old
Malcolm,” she said quietly.</p><p>I said, a little uncertainly: “I’ve got a chance of getting married now.
I can’t go on like this, living alone. Dixon was right. I’ve tumbled on
somebody who really cares for me at last—and not for my money, either.
And I’m going to ask her to marry me.” I glanced at her. “I thought
you’d better know.”</p><p>Joan said: “I see.”</p><p>Something in her tone pierced home and stung me up, and I said harshly:
“All right. I know you think I’m messing up my life by marrying a girl
like that. You needn’t put it into words.”</p><p>In the dim light I saw her looking up at me. “Well, old boy,” she said,
“whatever you do now you couldn’t make it any worse, could you? Living
alone, like you’ve been doing all these years.”</p><p>I stared at her blankly. “You think I’m doing the right thing?” I asked
slowly. I had not thought that she would take it quite like that.</p><p>She stood up from the balustrade. “Oh, Malcolm,” she burst out, “you are
so slow. I don’t believe you know yet what you’ve got. I don’t care
where she comes from, or who her people are. You’ve got a girl in ten
thousand. She simply adores you. She’s learnt your ways—she knows you
better than I do myself. She’s even learning about boats and the sea,
because that’s what you like. Do you mean to say that you can’t see it
for yourself?”</p><p>I said: “I can see it for myself all right. But I didn’t think it was so
plain to other people.”</p><p>She laughed. “My dear,” she said, “you give the game away a fresh way
every five minutes—both of you.”</p><p>She threw her cigarette away and came a little closer to me. “Malcolm,”
she said, “I think she’ll make you a good wife, and I think that you’ll
be happy. Don’t worry about what people will say. The family won’t like
it, but that doesn’t matter two hoots. I’ve had my share of that, and I
do know.”</p><p>“The times are changing,” I said absently. “The family have got to
learn.”</p><p>She nodded in the dusk. “It’s not such good fun teaching them, though,”
she said ruefully. She looked up at me. “You must be gentle with her,
Malcolm. Sometimes she won’t do things the way you like them done,
sometimes she’ll say the wrong thing and make you look a fool. But
she’ll only do it once. You’ll find she never makes the same mistake
again. And she’ll be worth a little trouble on your part.”</p><p>It was so dark that I could hardly see as she stood beside me. “It’s
good of you to talk like that,” I said. “I’d like to feel she had a
friend in you.”</p><p>She said: “Oh, Malcolm! Give me another cigarette.” And when I had
supplied a light for it she said: “You knew that you could count on me.
We’ve never spoken of it, but didn’t you do the same for me, when I
married Philip? You know, you were the only one of the relations who
ever made him feel at home. And I know about the time at Courton, just
after we became engaged.”</p><p>I laughed. “I didn’t cut much ice for you down there,” I said. “I’m not
a hunting man, and that ended it.”</p><p>“I know they’re difficult,” she said. “But you went, and months
afterwards I heard that you’d been there, and standing up for us. You
don’t think I’ve forgotten that, do you?”</p><p>“No, Lady Stenning,” I said whimsically, “I don’t.”</p><p>She laughed. “Poor Philip! They put his garage rent up half–a–crown when
he became a knight—he was <span class="emphasis"><em>furious</em></span>!” And then more seriously she said:
“Class doesn’t matter half so much these days. I wouldn’t change if I
could have my time again, and you won’t want to either. Let me know as
soon as she’s accepted you, and I’ll come down and see her, and we’ll go
and see the family together.”</p><p>We moved towards the house. “I’ll hold you to that promise,” I remarked.</p><p>Joan and Stenning left next morning, after an early breakfast. Mollie
and I went with them to the field and pulled the Moth out from its barn,
and stood and watched while Stenning started it up and went all round it
with a watchful eye. He ran it up and throttled back; then we packed all
their gear into it and Joan got in. Stenning drew me on one side.</p><p>“I’m free any time after three o’clock today,” he said. “Unless I let
you know I’ll be down here the day after tomorrow, in the afternoon. If
you want me before that, give me a ring at the office, and I’ll be with
you any time.”</p><p>He got into the cockpit and took off. The Moth slipped up into the air
over the hedge, turned over the harbour, and dwindled away into a cloudy
sky.</p><p>The day was overcast and clouding up, with a slowly falling barometer.
It looked as if the fine weather was over for the time.</p><p>I turned and slipped an arm through Mollie’s, and we went back to the
house. After my absence I had business waiting for me at the yard; I
left her at the house to look after herself for the morning, and went
down to my office to get things squared up.</p><p>I found that nothing at the office wanted squaring up so much as did my
personal affairs. I sat in my office staring at the calendar and
absently polishing the telephone with a duster, and wondered how I was
going to propose to Mollie. I had treated this part of the business as a
detail up till now, but now that I was up against it it didn’t look so
easy after all.</p><p>I did very little work that morning beyond opening my letters, and went
up to the house with an uneasy mind. We lunched together and I asked her
what she had been doing; it seemed that she had spent the morning in the
garden and down by the sea. It had grown too cold to bathe with any
comfort, and she was no cold water bather at the best of times. I
noticed when we went into the library that there was a gap where
Mortimer’s <span class="emphasis"><em>Naval History</em></span> had been. So she had had another look at
that. I found later that she had taken it upstairs to pore over.</p><p>It was while we were sitting in the library over coffee that the
telephone bell rang. I lifted the receiver, and it was Fedden, speaking
from his house.</p><p>He said: “I’ve just had a call from the Yard. It seems that they’ve had
news from Gloucester.”</p><p>“Oh,” I said. “What’s that?”</p><p>“The man called Palmer called on Gordon this morning, and gave him
Friday night, the day after tomorrow, for the landing of the next batch
of arms. Unfortunately, the man got away.”</p><p>“Friday night?” I said. “That’s earlier than was expected.”</p><p>“Only a day or two. But the unfortunate part is that the man Palmer got
away. The police weren’t quick enough.”</p><p>I asked: “Does he know that information has been laid?”</p><p>“I don’t know,” said Fedden. “I imagine that he does.”</p><p>“Gordon must have protection, then,” I said. “What’s happening about
that?”</p><p>“That’s all right—that has been thought of. Gordon is on his way back
to the Yard this afternoon. I think that Norman may bring him down with
him tomorrow—we shall want him for identification if we get the boat.”</p><p>“You’re trying for the boat?” I asked.</p><p>“Oh, certainly. I am arranging that side of it here.”</p><p>“Do you want any help from me?” I asked. “I’ve got that tug.”</p><p>He considered. “Look here,” he said, “could you come down and have a
chat?”</p><p>“I’ll come down now,” I said.</p></section><footer/></body></html>
