<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:pls="http://www.w3.org/2005/01/pronunciation-lexicon" xmlns:ssml="http://www.w3.org/2001/10/synthesis" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><head><title>Preface</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook-epub.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="epubbooks.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Stylesheets Vsnapshot_9885"/><link rel="prev" href="5.xhtml" title="Epigraph"/><link rel="next" href="7.xhtml" title="Chapter 1"/></head><body><header/><section class="preface" title="Preface" epub:type="preface" id="id70116622363180"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h1 class="title">Preface</h1></div></div></div><p>The writer of this book, Malcolm Logan Stevenson, was born in the year
1891. On the death of his father, in 1895, the boy came under the care
of his uncle, Sir Lionel Cope, the greater part of his boyhood being
spent at Courton Hall in West Sussex. He was educated at Winchester and
New College. Throughout his life his financial position was such as to
cause him no anxiety; he was, in fact, a man of very considerable
estate.</p><p>As a young man he displayed little enthusiasm for any form of regular
occupation, in marked distinction to his later life. His interests at
that time were essentially in things adventurous rather than academic.
From Oxford he joined the ill–fated Catter–Delina expedition to the
Amazon, leaving this country for Para in the autumn of 1911. He returned
to England with the survivors of that party in the spring of 1913 and
devoted himself with some energy to the sport of yacht cruising, an
exercise to which he was much attached. In the winter of 1913 he
commenced a desultory study of the economic factors affecting commercial
ships and shipping, spending some months upon the Clyde. Previous to the
war, however, he made no venture in this business.</p><p>In September, 1914, he was granted a commission as Sub–Lieutenant in the
RNVR, and served upon minesweepers until the summer of 1917, principally
in the Channel and the Irish Sea. During this period his vessel was
twice mined; in the second of these explosions he lost the third and
fourth fingers of his left hand.</p><p>In September, 1917, he was promoted to Lieutenant and was posted to a
so–called mystery ship, the <span class="emphasis"><em>Jane Ellen</em></span>, of Bideford, under Commander
D. A. Faulkner, RN. This vessel was a coastal schooner of some one
hundred and fifty tons, normally trading in china clay and coal between
the southern ports of Cornwall and the north–east coast. Under Commander
Faulkner she was employed as a submarine decoy.</p><p>The action of the <span class="emphasis"><em>Jane Ellen</em></span> (HMS Q 83) will be found described in a
supplement to the <span class="emphasis"><em>London Gazette</em></span> published shortly after the
Armistice, together with the list of awards. Sir Arthur Mortimer, in the
second volume of his ‘Naval History of the Great War’, gives a reliable
account of the engagement, which he refers to as ‘one of the bloodiest
naval actions ever fought’. Briefly, the <span class="emphasis"><em>Jane Ellen</em></span> engaged the U187
at dawn, on April 18th, 1918, at a point some forty miles west of the
Scillies. Casualties on the British vessel were extremely heavy and
included the Commander, the ship’s company of forty–seven being reduced
eventually to three in number. Finally the U187 was sunk by gunfire at
about noon, the gun being manned by Lieutenant Stevenson and a
midshipman. No survivors were rescued from the German vessel.</p><p>As a result of this action Stevenson was promoted to
Lieutenant–Commander; he was then about twenty–seven years of age.
Injuries to his lungs, aggravated by exposure, necessitated a prolonged
period in hospital subsequent to the action. It would not be beyond the
truth to say that these injuries were ultimately responsible for his
early death.</p><p>In the spring of 1919 Commander Stevenson commenced to build up a fleet
of schooners and small ketches which had carried the bulk of the
coastwise traffic of this country before the war. At that time these
vessels had disappeared almost entirely from British waters. A certain
number of them were sold abroad during the war; the remainder were sunk
as they carried on their business.</p><p>In the years following the war Commander Stevenson repurchased a number
of these vessels from their Scandinavian owners and, establishing
himself in a shipyard on the River Dart, commenced to operate them in
their ancient trade. At the time of his death he was the owner of no
less than seventeen of these ships. At the outset this speculation
involved him in a financial loss which was severe even for a man of his
resources; in later years the losses decreased, and at the time of his
death the business was in a fair way to show a profit.</p><p>In the settlement of his estate the fleet was broken up, the majority of
the vessels being sold abroad again. It is doubtful whether this form of
coastwise trading can be regarded as an economic business in these days.
It is at least doubtful whether Commander Stevenson cared if it were so
or not.</p><p>From the year 1919 until his death, ten years later, he lived in the
Port House above Dartmouth Harbour, alone but for a housekeeper and a
few servants. As the business of his fleet became stereotyped, demanding
less of his attention, he showed some inclination to develop his
shipyard as a building centre for yachts and small sailing craft of
various kinds.</p><p>In the winter of last year he died, after a comparatively short illness,
at the early age of thirty–nine.</p><p class="center">*        *        *        *        *</p><p>In person, Malcolm Stevenson was a man of medium height; his hair, from
the war onwards, was almost completely grey. He walked with a slight
limp; he was sensitive to the injury to his left hand, for which reason
he usually wore a glove. In temperament he was very taciturn, perhaps
bitter. He was popular with his acquaintances but admitted few to
friendship; with women he was diffident and shy. He had few interests
beyond the sea. For recreation he was accustomed to cruise
single–handed, or with at most one friend, in his tenton cutter
<span class="emphasis"><em>Runagate</em></span>; he was a regular competitor in the Ocean Race. He was a
member of the Squadron. He held both Master’s and Extra Master’s
certificates, and on occasions when he was short of a skipper would
sometimes act as Master in one of his own little ships upon a coastal
cruise.</p><p>He had few relatives, and those few he neglected. His closest tie was
with his cousin, Lady Stenning. In the later years of his life he seldom
left Dartmouth except to stay at her house in Golders Green, and he
became on terms of considerable friendship, if not intimacy, with her
husband, Sir Philip Stenning. To Sir Philip he left a very considerable
legacy; for the remainder, his testament was eccentric and beyond the
scope of this preface.</p><p class="center">*        *        *        *        *</p><p>The book which is now published was written by Commander Stevenson
shortly before the illness which terminated in his death. The MS is
written in pencil in a foolscap ledger freely interspersed with
memoranda of a personal nature; it would seem from internal evidence
that the compilation of this book was a relaxation for his leisure hours
over a period of about two months.</p><p>In the settlement of his estate the MS was read first by the writer of
this preface, and later by Sir Philip and Lady Stenning, who confirmed
the truth of the account. It seemed desirable, and even necessary, that
the facts contained therein should be made public at an early date, for
which reason it was first proposed that a condensed and impersonal
edition of the narrative should be prepared. Upon a closer
investigation, however, it became evident that the task of expurgation
would prove to be a most formidable one, and that a great mass of
extraneous matter would require to be inserted in explanation of motives
which were wholly personal and therefore to be omitted from the book. In
these circumstances it has seemed better to publish the MS substantially
in the form in which it was discovered, only modifying those names and
places which bear too close a relation to the world as it is lived in
today.</p><p>With this course the relatives of Commander Stevenson are in agreement.
I am indebted to Sir Lionel Cope for advice upon matters pertaining to
the family, and to Lady Stenning for much assistance in the preparation
of the narrative. If the effect of publication in this form should be to
indicate a quality of greatness in a man of singular reserve, then the
intrusion into his privacy may not be quite unjustified.</p><p>T. A. Jenkinson
<span class="emphasis"><em>Messrs. Louden, Jenkinson, and Priestly,</em></span>
     <span class="emphasis"><em>Lincoln’s Inn Fields,</em></span>
     <span class="emphasis"><em>London.</em></span></p></section><footer/></body></html>
