<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:pls="http://www.w3.org/2005/01/pronunciation-lexicon" xmlns:ssml="http://www.w3.org/2001/10/synthesis" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><head><title>Chapter 5</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook-epub.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="epubbooks.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Stylesheets Vsnapshot_9885"/><link rel="prev" href="10.xhtml" title="Chapter 4"/><link rel="next" href="12.xhtml" title="Chapter 6"/></head><body><header/><section class="chapter" title="Chapter 5" epub:type="chapter" id="id70116623193300"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h1 class="title">Chapter 5</h1></div></div></div><p>She had a bed–sitting–room in the district rather to the west of Leeds;
I found the house next morning with some difficulty. It was in an
industrial neighbourhood. It was one of many little streets of drab
brick houses, semi–detached and each with a little front garden for the
cats; not quite a squalid street, but very nearly so. It was called
Acacia Road, and she lived in the house of a man who worked in the goods
office at the railway. The road was a playground for the children of the
neighbourhood.</p><p>It was just after ten o’clock when I drew up before her house; the
children swarmed around, staring and fingering the car. She must have
been on the look out for me, unseen, because as I got out of the saloon
the door of the house opened and she came out to me, suitcase in hand. I
went forward to meet her; in the front window a faded blind was pulled
aside to disclose a woman’s face pressed close against the glass.</p><p>I smiled and took the case from her, bulging a little and cracked and
gaping at the corners. I think it had in it all that she possessed, or
nearly all. She was in grey; grey shoes, grey stockings, grey overcoat,
and grey felt hat; she had taken great pains over the adornment of her
face. “It’s going to be fine,” I said. “We’ll have a good run down.”</p><p>She hesitated motionless upon the pavement. “Oh!” she said. “Is this
your car?”</p><p>I never did like little cars, and my Bentley suits me pretty well. A
dead, dull black saloon with a silver radiator and fittings, it loomed
immensely in that narrow street; it seemed to shame the cramped style of
the little villas. She moved forward on the pavement and peered in
through the window at the deep, low seats, the hide upholstery and the
gleaming wheel. “Oh!” she said. “Is this your car?”</p><p>I nodded. “Do you like her?”</p><p>She breathed: “It’s awfully grand.” And then she said: “Are you going to
drive it yourself?”</p><p>She thought, I think, that the driving of a car like that was a
professional matter and that lurking somewhere round about would be
Adams in his livery, who at that moment was mowing the lawns of the Port
House, down in Devonshire. I smiled at her. “I am,” I said. “That is,
unless you’d like to take her for a bit, later in the day.”</p><p>She shook her head. “I only drove a car once, one day with Billy. He
said it was a Morris—Morris something. But I couldn’t drive a car like
this.”</p><p>I swung her suitcase into the back of the car beside my own and opened
the front door for her. “All right,” I said equably. “Then you’ll just
have to sit and watch for the best part of three hundred miles.”</p><p>She stared at me wide eyed. “Is it as far as that?”</p><p>“Something over two–fifty, anyway,” I said. “It may be over three
hundred. It’ll take us most of the day, taking things easily. But it’s a
good day for a run.”</p><p>She hesitated for a moment in the door, examining the car and feeling
the upholstery. “I used to go out with a boy who had an Essex coach, in
Birmingham,” she remarked. “But that wasn’t like this….”</p><p>I thought of Le Mans. “This isn’t quite so handy in a busy street,” I
said politely. “It’s too big.” And with that we got into her, and moved
away down the road.</p><p>We went down through Huddersfield, through a bleak and blackened land of
little fields and little mills. Between the towns it was bright and
sunny on the road; Sixpence sat quiet by my side. I gave her a map to
study, but she couldn’t read it, and so we went on more or less by dead
reckoning, eked out by signposts and by my memory of the road. Before we
had been going for ten minutes I had absently thrown off my hat into the
back seats of the car; I generally drive bareheaded in a saloon.</p><p>She turned an eager, delicately–painted little face to me. “May I do
that too? Take off my hat, I mean?”</p><p>I smiled. “Of course. Better make yourself really comfortable; we’ve got
a good way to go.” I reached behind and got her a rug; she took off her
hat and patted her hair into shape before the mirror of her bag,
powdered her nose, and settled down happily beside me as I drove.</p><p>“There’s cigarettes there, if you like,” I said. “You might give me
one….” I had to show her how to use the lighter then, and that
amused her almost more than anything we saw that day. All morning I was
smoking cigarettes; with each cigarette she pressed the button till the
unit glowed, lips parted, watching it entranced; then she pulled it out
and handed it to me. She couldn’t make out how it worked at all.</p><p>I gave the Midlands a miss that day and went down the Welsh side. We got
up on the high land after Huddersfield and went across the moors,
skirting Manchester, to Buxton; then down to Newcastle–under–Lyme. It
was there that Sixpence asked in all innocence if my car was a fast one
and we got her up to eighty–six before I had to shut her down for a
corner, but mostly we were running at about fifty. We turned away from
Staffordshire and cut down through Market Drayton to Shrewsbury, and
when we had passed through that we began to think about our lunch.</p><p>I chose the Chequers at Church Stretton, a place that I had had meals at
before. The house dates back to the sixteenth century; a grey stone
building, rather rambling, and full of open fireplaces burning wood.
They have restored it and built on a dining–room within the last few
years, and spoilt it altogether. They run it as a show place now, with
prices commensurate, and no good American goes home without having spent
a night in the room where Charles II slept and knighted Perrhyn.</p><p>We left the car by the grass plot in front and went into the hall,
ushered by a porter in brown livery. I knew that I had made a mistake as
soon as I got inside; we should have lunched at some little pub by the
roadside. The place was all white paint and glass panels inside, like a
hospital; the mere travesty of an English country house. The new
dining–room was very white and spacious, with tables round the edge of a
bleak dancing floor.</p><p>I was occupied with Sixpence at the beginning of our meal, and we had
finished the fish before I was free to look about the room. Over in an
alcove by the window there was a lady lunching with a couple of
children, very neat and clean, in charge of a neat, clean nurse in the
uniform of some institute or other. Something about the lady seemed
familiar to me and drew my attention; I stared at her a little harder,
and it was Marion.</p><p>Marion, whom I hadn’t seen or heard of for the last nine years since we
parted in the stables down at Courton, crying her eyes out because she
didn’t want to marry me. Why she should have cried like that I never
understood; if anyone had a right to cry it should have been me, but I
can only remember feeling a bit uncomfortable about it all. Nine years
is a long time; she had filled out and collected a couple of children,
but it was Marion all right. I seemed to remember having heard that she
was married; I wondered what her name was now.</p><p>Towards the end of lunch the nurse marshalled the children and went out
with them, and she was left alone for coffee. I bent across the table to
Sixpence.</p><p>“I’ve just seen an old friend of mine at that table over there—the
lady. Do you mind if I go over and speak to her for a minute or two?”
And so I crossed the room to her table.</p><p>“Good morning, Marion,” I said quietly. She looked up in surprise; then
she recognised me. “Malcolm!” she said. “After all these years. My
dear!”</p><p>I sat down beside her table and talked with her for a few minutes of the
old days and friends that we had known. She had a neat and orderly mind
even in the old days; with the years this had grown on her and now she
was very social, very rigid in her class. She told me that she was
living in the hotel with her two children for the summer ‘because the
air was so good for them’; I heard no mention of her husband, nor of any
home that they had made. I sat there listening, thinking that I could
have done better for her than that.</p><p>In turn she wanted to know my news. “There’s nothing much to tell,” I
said. “I still live down in Dartmouth, just the same. I have my work
down there, you see, and that’s all one really wants.” I smiled. “That,”
I said, “and a certain amount to drink.”</p><p>She said: “Oh, my dear. Do you mean you’ve never married, all these
years?”</p><p>I laughed. “Lord, no,” I said; “nor likely to. You should know that.”</p><p>She said: “Oh, Malcolm!”</p><p>She leaned across and put her hand on mine. “Malcolm,” she said, “we
were good friends once, and I’ve sometimes thought I didn’t treat you
very well.” I said something or other—I don’t know what. “But you’re
still a young man, and it’s not too late now for you to marry some nice
girl and be happy with her, as you used to want to be. There’s ever so
many nice girls about, Malcolm. You mustn’t go and hurt all your old
friends by getting down too low. I know what men are, of course … 
but don’t go down too far, Malcolm.” And she glanced across the room at
Sixpence, sitting all alone.</p><p>I knew that Sixpence wasn’t happy there. It was not that she was
unaccustomed to a good hotel, because she evidently was; she knew the
ropes all right, but there was a bleak austerity about the place that
might have daunted anyone. She was sitting rather stiffly on her chair,
ill at ease and anxious in the menacing presence of the waiters. In the
freezing cleanness of that room she looked a little shabby and a little
over–dressed; the paint upon her face showed up most cruelly.</p><p>I smiled. “Looks a bit high and dry, doesn’t she?” I said cynically. I
knew that I must get back to her; it was bad luck for her to be made to
feel like that upon the first day of her holiday.</p><p>“Who is she, Malcolm?”</p><p>I glanced at Marion for a moment, thinking what a different life I
should have had to lead if we had gone through with it. Some things
cannot be explained; I knew that Marion would never understand me if I
talked to her all night. I shrugged my shoulders. “One of my little
friends,” I said “I picked her up in Leeds.”</p><p>She withdrew her hand. “You’ve changed a lot, Malcolm,” she said
quietly.</p><p>I nodded. “I dare say. It’s probably as well we never married, Marion.”</p><p>She had nothing to say to that.</p><p>I ground the stub end of my cigarette down upon the tray. “Things
change,” I said, “and people. And one gets to think about things
differently. It’s been jolly seeing you again, Marion, but now I think I
must get back to her.” I smiled. “I paid her ten pounds to come away
with me, you see, and I must get my money’s worth.”</p><p>She sighed a little, and I left her to her life of freezing clean
hotels, her two hygienic children and their nurse, and all the Best
People that she knew, and I went back to Sixpence. “This room simply
shatters me,” I said, and glanced around me with distaste. “It’s like a
ruddy ice house.”</p><p>She rippled softly into laughter. “Oh, you are funny!” she said. “I
mean, I’ve been feeling like that, too. It’s terribly grand, isn’t it?”</p><p>She had finished lunch while I had been talking to Marion. “Let’s get
out of it,” I said.</p><p>She stared at me. “Don’t you want any more to eat? You haven’t had half
enough, driving all that way.”</p><p>I smiled. “Don’t want any more,” I said. “The food would choke me. You
want to trifle with lark’s tongues in aspic and talk about Marcel Proust
when you lunch here.”</p><p>She stared at me. “Who was she?”</p><p>“I don’t know,” I replied. “That’s why we’re going.” And I sent the
waiter for the bill.</p><p>We settled down again into the Bentley and went wandering south between
the hills to Ludlow, running at an easy speed. All afternoon we ran
southwards by the border, through Ludlow to Hereford and down to Ross.
Then we cut across to Gloucester and down beside the Cotswolds, till
finally we ran into Bristol in good time for tea.</p><p>I turned to Sixpence as we drove through the suburbs of the town. “I
chose that place for lunch,” I said, “and it turned out to be a dud.
You’d better have a shot this time, and choose where we have tea.”</p><p>I thought for a moment. “We’ll have to have supper on the road, I think.
We’ll be a bit late getting in, and I haven’t told them we should want a
meal. Would you like a meat tea and a light supper somewhere?”</p><p>She looked up at me doubtfully. “Would you like that? I mean, is that
what you have?”</p><p>I laughed. “I had my way about lunch. You’ve got to choose where we have
tea.”</p><p>She laughed with me. “Let’s just walk about a bit and see what the
places are like. I mean, fancy asking for an egg to your tea in where we
had lunch. Wouldn’t it be awful?” And so we slid into the centre of the
town among the traffic.</p><p>We found a place to park the car and walked out into the streets,
looking for our tea. In the end we found a place, a sort of teashop, not
too pretentious; she paused outside and looked up at me doubtfully, and
said: “Do you think this is nice?” So we went inside and ate a meal of
tea and poached eggs and iced cakes. Sixpence finished up with a
strawberry ice, but I couldn’t face that; at the end she sighed happily
and said: “It is nice here, isn’t it?” I helped her on with her coat,
and for that little service she turned to me impulsively and said: “You
are kind!”</p><p>And then I went and spoilt it all. I don’t know now exactly how it came
to happen; some tone or inflexion in my voice, I suppose, that brought
her little castle tumbling down. She asked if we had time to walk up the
street a little way to look at the shops, and so we strolled on slowly,
pausing every now and then. First it was a leather shop that caught her
eye, and she paused to admire the bags and dressing cases in the window.
Next it was a window full of evening frocks; that held us for a long
time, and I was told that she looked best in green. All the girls said
so.</p><p>This shop–inspecting expedition, I could see, was going to cost me
money. That put things on a different footing; to me it became a matter
of business then, and I began calculating the chances dispassionately.
My job was to get her safe to Newton Abbot and hand her over to the
police for the identification of the lorry; I had sent a wire to Norman
to say that I was bringing her down. While she was in my hands my
business was to keep her quiet and amenable; what happened when I had
delivered up the goods was no concern of mine. The next move was
evidently that I should buy her something and I was quite prepared to
play my part. What to buy I neither knew nor cared.</p><p>It was in this frame of mind that we came to the jewellers, and we
stopped a long time there. First it was a pendant that attracted her,
and then a brooch; in my preoccupation I was amused to study her and to
notice that her taste was by no means bad. We stayed there so long that
I became aware that it was here that I must do my stuff. I don’t suppose
there was a thing in that window worth much more than twenty pounds.</p><p>It was a brooch, a single bar of platinum with an emerald in the middle,
that she was admiring at the time. I smiled, thinking it was like giving
toys to a child to make it be good. “You can have that, if you like,” I
said. “Or any of these other things.”</p><p>As soon as I had spoken I knew that I had done it wrong. She stared up
at me, wrinkling her brows. “Do you mean you’d give it me?” she
demanded.</p><p>I didn’t quite know what to say to that. “If you’d like it,” I replied.
“Either that or anything else in there that you’d like.”</p><p>She stood there staring up at me. “Do you mean I can have anything I
like out of that window? Anything I like to ask you for?”</p><p>I nodded. “If you’d like anything there.”</p><p>There was a silence. She stood looking in at the window without speaking
for a minute, and I knew that things had gone most desperately wrong. In
an endeavour to retrieve the situation I said awkwardly: “Would you like
to go inside and have a look round?”</p><p>She shook her head. “I don’t think I want anything now. They’re not very
nice.”</p><p>I was humbled and amazed. We went on looking at shops in a desultory
manner, but all her pleasure in the walk was gone. She seemed listless
and depressed, and after a decent interval she suggested that perhaps it
was time we got on the road again. So we went back to the car. By that
time I knew what was wrong. I had hurt her very deeply by the way in
which I had offered her the whole contents of the shop; I could imagine
that in her parlance that was not the way a gentleman would give a
present to his girl friend. The worst of it was that I could see no way
in which to put things right.</p><p>We slid out of the town into the suburbs and up the hill upon the
Axbridge road. It was a lovely evening on the road, but that didn’t do
us any good. Before, she had been chattering to me all the way, pointing
out things by the roadside and lighting cigarettes for me, but now she
sat quiet by my side and even the automatic lighter failed to amuse.
From time to time she said something with forced gaiety, but there was a
constraint between us that the swift passing of the miles did nothing to
remove.</p><p>We went down through Axbridge and across Sedgemoor, through Bridgwater
to Taunton. With the coming of the evening we ran into Devonshire and
down to Exeter. It was about half–past seven when we passed through
that; I took the Dartmouth road. I was in my own country by this time.
Chudleigh was my destination for this stage, and twenty minutes later we
pulled up at the Running Hart for supper.</p><p>Try as I may, I cannot remember much about that meal. I suppose we ate
in silence punctuated by little forced remarks; I know that nothing
happened which would make the situation any easier. Only one thing I
remember. They know me at the Running Hart, and they gave me to wait at
table a boy that I know something of, whose uncle is a shipwright in my
yard. This boy is a pretty good golfer in his leisure time; he got into
the semi–final of the South Devon Championship that year. I think he
must have told us about that as he served the meal, because I cannot
think of any other way in which I should have known.</p><p>It was nearly dark when we had finished. We had a cup of coffee in the
lounge; several times during that I felt that Sixpence wanted to say
something, but it didn’t come. At last we went out to the car. I had
turned her off the road into the stable yard, and there she was standing
on the cobbles by the mountain block, gleaming a little and enormous in
the dusk. Sixpence had followed me, a pace or so behind, but as I opened
the door for her to get in she stopped motionless beside the car.</p><p>“Mr Stevenson,” she said, so low that I had to drop my head to catch her
words. “Please, I don’t think I want to come on any further with you.
I’m so dreadfully sorry….”</p><p>There was a bat wheeling and darting round the yard against a deep blue
sky. I stood there staring absently into the dusk, at the dark shadows
in the open stable doors, the tin advertisements of poultry food upon
the russet walls, the haystack by the gate. This was the England that I
knew; in coming down from Leeds I had come south from a foreign land,
and brought with me a foreign girl.</p><p>I bent towards her. “It’s exactly as you like,” I said. “You needn’t
come with me unless you want to, you know.” That wasn’t true, of course.
Now that I had got her so far she would certainly complete her journey
to identify the wreck at Newton Abbot, whether with me or with the
police.</p><p>She hesitated, at a loss for words. “I think I’d better spend the night
here,” she said at last, “by myself. And then I’d go up north again by
train tomorrow.”</p><p>I nodded. “I’m so very sorry this has gone wrong,” I said quietly. “I
mean that. If you could tell me what’s the matter—I’d do anything I can
to help, you know. Don’t worry if you’d rather not.”</p><p>She looked up at me. “I feel so awfully mean telling you,” she muttered,
“after all the trouble you’ve taken, and the things you’ve done, and
everything. It’s just that I don’t want to go on with it….”</p><p>I smiled at her. “That’s quite all right,” I said. “You don’t want to
worry about that.” I knew that sort of scene by heart; it happens to me
every eighteen months.</p><p>She raised her eyes and looked me straight in the face. “I’m so
dreadfully sorry, and I didn’t mean it to end like this when I came away
with you—truly I didn’t. I suppose it’s that I’m not really the sort of
girl for this. And you’re not the sort of man, either.”</p><p>I was staring into the dim expanses of the field beyond the gate; the
bat was still sweeping and circling about the eaves. “Why do you say
that?” I asked, without looking at her. “Why do you say I’m not the sort
of man?”</p><p>She hesitated, and then said: “The way you were talking to the
waiter….”</p><p>She came a little closer to me in the dusk. “I’d like you to know,” she
said simply, “because you’ve been so kind, and perhaps you won’t think
so bad of me. Lots of the girls go away for holidays with gentlemen and
just don’t seem to mind, but I never did that. Only once, and I didn’t
know about things then; I was seventeen, and I didn’t know. And that was
ever so long ago—I’m quite old, you know.” She smiled up at me
tremulously. “And then you came, and it was all so different, I’d never
had a gentleman quite like you before, although I’ve met lots, you know,
coming to dance. And then I couldn’t have my holiday, and I was sort of
silly about that, although it doesn’t do to be silly about things, does
it? And then you came and asked me to come away with you. And I thought
it didn’t matter….”</p><p>It seemed to me that this young woman was labouring under a considerable
misapprehension as to the nature of her holiday. I stood there resting
one foot upon the running board of the Bentley and I was silent for a
minute, considering the position. At last I said:</p><p>“You can go home if you like—you know that—and I’ll fix up a room for
you here, and go away. But you’re quite wrong about me.”</p><p>She looked up at me. “I don’t understand.”</p><p>I dropped my foot down from the running board and stood erect. “I’m
thirty–nine years old,” I said, “and I must be a damn fool, because
although I’ve got plenty of money I’ve never taken a girl away the way
you mean. Not even when I’ve had it chucked at my head. You were right
when you said I’m not that sort of man, and I don’t take any credit for
that, either, because it’s how you happen to be made.”</p><p>I paused. “You think that because I offered to buy you anything you
wanted from that shop, that I was trying to buy you. Well, I wasn’t, as
a matter of fact. I meant you to come down to my place for an ordinary
holiday, like I told you.”</p><p>She stood there looking up at me. “I don’t understand,” she said again.
“I’ve never met anyone like you a bit….”</p><p>I smiled at her. “We aren’t going on our honeymoon,” I said, “although I
know it looks a bit like that. I meant it to be just an ordinary holiday
for you—sort of staying with friends. Only there’s only me and the
servants in the house.”</p><p>“You mean you just wanted me to come and keep you company, sort of?” She
paused. “Not anything more than that?”</p><p>I nodded. “Nothing more than that.”</p><p>There was a little silence then, and then she said, half to herself:
“Just because you were lonely, like, living alone.” I hadn’t anything to
say to that.</p><p>She raised her face to mine. “I’d like to come on with you,” she said
simply, “if you’ll let me now. I didn’t know it was like that. You must
think me awful, though….”</p><p>It was very dark and shadowy in the yard. It seemed to me that I had
slipped back fifteen years, that I was still a boy with all the glamour
of a young man’s life in front of me, that I could mould my life to what
I chose and make it good.</p><p>“My dear,” I said, “I think you’re simply sweet.”</p><p>In the dim light her upturned face was like a flower. “You’ve been so
kind to me,” she murmured in the dusk. “I don’t know what to say.”</p><p>The bat was still wheeling and flickering above our heads against a deep
blue sky, the poultry food advertisements had faded into dim shadows on
the russet walls, the night was very still. She stood there very close
to me, her face upturned to mine; we were more together then than we had
ever been. With a little sigh she came into my arms and rubbed her face
against my overcoat.</p><p>It was over seven years since I had kissed a girl.</p><p>After a little time we came unstuck, and got into the car. I swung her
out of the stable yard on to the road, and then we sat quiet for a time
in the gloom behind the headlights, very close together, talking in low
tones. It is twenty miles from Chudleigh to my house. It seemed like two
to me, that night.</p><p>We passed through Dartmouth and up the shoulder of the hill. At the top
I swung the car in through the gates and up the drive, and we came to
rest on the gravel sweep before the house, three hundred miles from
Leeds. I switched off the engine, and the silence closed down on us,
infinite, complete. We sat there for a moment silent in the dark; then I
stirred, and we got out of the car.</p><p>The front door opened and Rogers was there with one of the maids; he
came forward and busied himself with our luggage. I spoke a word or two
to him; from the open door a stream of light poured out into the
darkness where we stood. Then I turned to where the girl was standing by
the car.</p><p>She came up to me: “Is this where you live?”</p><p>“That’s right,” I said. “Let’s go indoors.”</p><p>She hung back a little by the car. “It’s awfully big,” she breathed.
“It’s like the pictures….” And then she said: “Whatever is that
noise?”</p><p>I listened for a moment. I could hear nothing beyond the usual small
noises of the night, the rustling of branches in the breeze, the low
murmur from the beach. I laughed. “That’s the sea you hear,” I said. “On
the rocks, just down below that lawn. You’ll see it from your window in
the morning when you wake.”</p><p>For a little time we stood there listening, sniffing the sea air.
“That’s it,” I said. “It’s when the wind’s in the south–east that it
makes that noise. Blows straight in.”</p><p>“Oh——” she said. “It’s going to be lovely here.”</p><p>We went into the house. Mrs Rogers, my housekeeper, was in the hall; I
noticed that she looked at her a little bit askance. I spoke a word or
two to Mrs Rogers on the subject of spare rooms and light refreshments,
and by the time I’d finished she had clearly understood that her
position would be vacant if she gave me any nonsense of that sort. She
went away then, and I had no further trouble with her in that way.</p><p>Both Sixpence and I were tired from the drive; there was a fire in the
library, and we went in there. She was shy and very quiet, very
observant of the house. She refused a drink, but jumped at the proposal
of a cup of tea and a piece of cake before the fire; I poured myself out
a whisky and put on a few records on the gramophone to allow her to keep
quiet. Then we were ready for bed.</p><p>I took her up and showed her to her room. There was a bright fire
burning in the grate and the room looked very comfortable; her things
were all laid out. She hadn’t very much. I looked round and made sure
that she had everything she wanted for the night—soap and towels and
all the rest of it. I crossed with her to the window and drew back the
curtain; two hundred feet below the moon cast dappled shadows on the
water at the harbour mouth. “There’s the sea,” I said. “You’ll see it
all when you wake up.”</p><p>We turned back into the room.</p><p>“What’s that door?” she asked.</p><p>I crossed the room and opened it, smiling a little; the light shone
brightly on white tiles and silver pipes. “That’s your bathroom,” I
replied. “Not my bedroom, as you might suppose.”</p><p>She rippled into laughter. “Oh, you are funny. I mean, I didn’t mean
that when I asked you what the door was.” She sighed. “It’s all so
lovely here I don’t know what to say.”</p><p>“Better say goodnight,” I remarked. “That’s a safe one, anyway.”</p><p>She came up to me. “Goodnight,” she said simply. “And thank you so much
for the lovely day I’ve had.”</p><p>“Goodnight,” I said, and went down to the library again. There were one
or two letters to be opened, and one or two instructions to be given to
Rogers about matters of the house. And then I sat smoking for a long
time, irresolute, staring into the fire. At last I reached out for the
telephone and rang up Fedden at his house.</p><p>“Well,” I said, “I’ve got the girl down here. What do you want done with
her?”</p><p>There was a moment’s pause. “One moment. Where is she? Where are you
speaking from?”</p><p>“Speaking from my house,” I said. “You don’t want her tonight, do you?
I’ve sent her up to bed.”</p><p>“I can’t do anything with her tonight,” he replied. “We’ll examine her
in the morning. You know Norman’s down here? He came down this
afternoon. About this girl—has she made any statement to you?”</p><p>“None at all. I haven’t tried for one. I brought her down here because I
thought she could identify the lorry.”</p><p>He paused. “I don’t understand. How did you get her to come down here,
then?”</p><p>“Personal charm,” I said laconically.</p><p>“Oh….” There was a little silence then, because Fedden is a better
sort than I am. “Then she doesn’t know anything at all about this
matter—why you’ve brought her down?”</p><p>“Nothing whatsoever,” I replied. “Still, I’ve got her here. What do you
want me to do with her?”</p><p>He considered for a moment. “Bring her to Newton Abbot police station at
half–past ten tomorrow morning,” he said at last. “I’m meeting Norman
there at ten. In all probability he’ll show her the lorry there.”</p><p>“All right. Are you any good at scenes?”</p><p>“Did you say scenes?”</p><p>“Yes, scenes. You’d better come prepared for one, because we’re pretty
sure to have it.”</p><p>“Oh….”</p><p>“One thing more,” I said. “I take it that my responsibility ends
tomorrow, when I hand her over to you. I’ll arrange to have her clothes
packed up and sent along to you later in the day. The position is that I
deliver her to you at Newton Abbot, and you take charge of her from then
onwards.”</p><p>He hesitated. “If you like. I don’t see that we can ask you to do
anything further in the matter after that.”</p><p>“That’s all I wanted to be sure about,” I said. “Goodnight.”</p><p>I put up the receiver and moved the decanter over to a table by my
chair. The fire was dying in the grate; I threw on more coal and beat it
savagely into a blaze.</p><p>I sat there till the room grew cold and dark. Then I went up to bed.</p></section><footer/></body></html>
