<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:pls="http://www.w3.org/2005/01/pronunciation-lexicon" xmlns:ssml="http://www.w3.org/2001/10/synthesis" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><head><title>Chapter 6</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook-epub.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="epubbooks.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Stylesheets Vsnapshot_9885"/><link rel="prev" href="11.xhtml" title="Chapter 5"/><link rel="next" href="13.xhtml" title="Chapter 7"/></head><body><header/><section class="chapter" title="Chapter 6" epub:type="chapter" id="id70116623189200"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h1 class="title">Chapter 6</h1></div></div></div><p>I can’t have got much sleep that night, because I was awake at dawn.
That was about four o’clock, I should suppose; it must have been about
the second or third of June. I lay and watched the light growing in the
room till I could see from the glow that there was sunlight out of
doors, and a clear sky and an easterly wind for settled weather.</p><p>It was no good lying in bed; I gave up the attempt to sleep, got up, and
had a bath. Then I went downstairs in my dressing gown and pyjamas and
wandered absently about the house a bit; my chair and glass were as I
had left them in the library an hour or two before. I went through into
the model room and drew the blinds. The morning sun streamed through
into the room and I stood there idly for a little time, studying the
hull shapes on my drawing board. At that time I was working on the
design of the small cruising yacht that I laid down last month when I
came back to Dartmouth; I think she will turn out a pretty little craft,
embodying all that I have ever learnt about the game.<a href="#ftn.idp140228861165104" class="footnote"><sup class="footnote" id="idp140228861165104">[1]</sup></a> I stood there
studying the lines till I became absorbed, moved T–square and curves,
and stood there working at the hull until I heard the servants moving
round the house.</p><p>I went upstairs to shave and dress, and when I came down again Sixpence
was before me. I came down into the hall treading quietly on the thick
carpet of the stairs, and stood there for a moment sorting through my
letters. Then I looked up and through the open door of the library I saw
her standing at the entrance to the model room. She had not heard me in
the hall.</p><p>I watched her for a minute. She stood there very quiet, staring about
her, taking it all in. She was dressed in the same grey costume that she
had worn the previous day and had taken the same pains over her face;
her thick black hair was coiled about her ears. I watched her as she
moved slowly forward into the model room, treading very softly as though
she was uncertain if she ought to be there at all. She passed into the
sunlight by the window; deep colours showed up in the folds of her hair
and warm tints on her neck below the powder line; she moved with a quiet
grace that was, perhaps, in part an attribute of her profession. She
stood there for a time by the window in the sun, looking about her at
the models, careful not to touch the cases as she moved. Presently she
slipped over to my drawing board and paused for a long time over that,
uncomprehending.</p><p>I smiled, and went up a few steps of the stairs, and came down upon the
resonant woodwork at the side. I turned into the library and found her
there. “Morning,” I said; “did you sleep well?”</p><p>She nodded. “Lovely,” she said. And then she said: “It is a lovely
house. I think it’s just a dream.”</p><p>I smiled, and moved forward to the door. “This is the model room,” I
said. “Where I do my work—some of it. What I don’t do down at the
office I do here.” I stared around. “There’s not much here but ships.”</p><p>She said: “The maid told me, when she came to wake me up. Oh, and I
mean—I’ve been calling you all wrong. You must think me awful! But you
never told me different. I’ve been calling you Mr Stevenson all the
time.”</p><p>I laughed. “That’s what I ought to be called. It’s only because I have
to do with ships that they call me Commander. I was only in the Navy in
the war.”</p><p>She looked up at me uncertainly. “Oh … I didn’t know.” And then she
said: “She said you were up working, ever so early. Didn’t you sleep
properly? I slept lovely after all that driving.”</p><p>“You don’t sleep so much as you get older,” I replied. “I often get up
early in the summer.”</p><p>This was an opening she knew. “Oh, you are funny,” she replied. “You
aren’t old.”</p><p>I grinned at her. “I’ve got enough grey hair, anyway,” I said.</p><p>She looked around, and sighed. “I’d sleep for ever in a lovely house
like this,” she said.</p><p>We went through into the dining–room for breakfast. I saw her glance
around as she sat down, a swift circular glance that seemed to take in
everything from the silver on the table to the portraits of my family
upon the walls. “I’ve got to go over to Newton Abbot this morning,” I
remarked as we sat down. “Would you like to come too?” I paused. “I’m
running over in the car.”</p><p>She looked at me doubtfully. “Are you sure I wouldn’t be in the way? I
mean, it’s all so lovely here I don’t want you to bother.”</p><p>I smiled, a little bitterly: “You needn’t worry about that. I’d like it
if you’d come to keep me company.”</p><p>She smiled at me. “It would be lovely. I do like driving in your car. It
is a nice one, isn’t it?”</p><p>“It goes all right,” I said, and so we got on with the meal. I had grown
queerly callous by that time and could listen quite unmoved while she
chatted to me about holidays that she had taken with her brother, years
before, holidays at Colwyn Bay and Southport. I listened with a
detached, critical interest while she spoke of him, trying to make out
from her account what sort of man this brother of hers was. She had a
great regard for him. To her he was everything that was fine and manly
and courageous; it was the idolism of a child. I wondered what the man
was really like.</p><p>He was three years older than her. That put him at about twenty–eight
years old, I thought.</p><p>We left the house soon after breakfast; that was a rotten drive. I was
silent and preoccupied, and after a little time Sixpence grew quiet and
didn’t worry me. I noticed that at the time, and I remembered wondering
if she had smelt a rat. In any case, there was nothing she could do
about it now; my business was so nearly over.</p><p>It was in that frame of mind that we drove into Newton Abbot and drew up
before the police station, exactly at the time agreed upon. The town was
all spattered with election posters. I remember that because it was the
first time I had seen the things that year. It must have been about six
weeks before the poll.</p><p>As the car came to a standstill, I said: “You’d better come inside with
me. I shan’t be long.” She looked a little startled, but I turned away
and she followed me in through the door and into the same room where I
had been shown the gun. Norman and Fedden were waiting for us there.</p><p>I spoke first: “This is Miss Gordon, who’s come down with me,” I said.
“Major Norman—Colonel Fedden.”</p><p>They bowed to her, and she murmured something that I couldn’t catch. I
didn’t care to look at her.</p><p>“We have the lorry outside, in the yard,” said Norman. “I think perhaps
we’d better go and see that first.” He turned to the girl. “Will you
come, too, Miss Gordon?” he said pleasantly.</p><p>She smiled at him, and we went through the door and out into the yard.
There was a mass of wreckage beneath a tarpaulin in a corner of the
wall; two constables were uncovering it as we went out.</p><p>Norman turned to the girl, and when he spoke his voice was very grave.
“Miss Gordon,” he said quietly. “I think you told Commander Stevenson
that your brother was the owner of a motor–lorry—a thirty–hundredweight
Dennis lorry.” He paused. “I am very sorry to say that we have had an
accident down here recently—rather a bad accident. Do you think you
would know your brother’s lorry again?”</p><p>She stared at him, wide eyed. “I don’t quite understand.” And then she
said quickly: “Do you mean something’s happened to Billy?”</p><p>His manner was perfect. “Please, Miss Gordon,” he said, “there’s nothing
to distress yourself about at the moment. I want you just to walk round
this lorry with me, and see if you can see anything on it that you can
identify. That’s all.”</p><p>The wreckage was completely uncovered by this time. It lay there on the
asphalt of the yard, broken and twisted and already red with rust. I was
standing with Fedden a little way apart. He looked at me awkwardly, and
said in a low tone:</p><p>“Norman is very experienced in dealing with these cases. You can safely
leave her in his hands, if you’d rather slip away now.”</p><p>I glanced at him sharply. “I’d rather stay,” I said. “I want to see how
this is done.”</p><p>He made no answer, but stood there fidgeting a little—a decent man in
an impossible position. Norman had moved closer to the lorry with the
girl, and was talking to her in a very gentle tone. She had forgotten we
were there, I think.</p><p>“It caught on fire in the middle of the night,” he was saying, “on the
road, not very far from here. There was nobody there at the time, and
when help came it was burning so fiercely that no one could get near it
to do anything. Everything in it was destroyed—we don’t even know what
it was loaded with. As you can see, it was completely burnt out….”
He hesitated. “And the driver….” He stopped.</p><p>She was staring at him, dumb with horror. “Please … ” she whispered
in the end. “Please tell me. What happened to the driver?”</p><p>He paused for a moment, as if he didn’t quite know what to say. “I am
afraid, Miss Gordon,” he said very gently, “we don’t quite know what
happened to the driver. It was all so utterly burnt up, you see.”</p><p>It was a moment before she realised what he meant; then for a minute I
thought she was going to break down. But she had guts, that girl, and
all that happened was that she began fumbling at the catch of her
handbag, mechanically trying to open it. It would not come undone and
she stood there fumbling at it desperately, her head bent down. I don’t
know what it was she wanted out of it, perhaps a handkerchief.</p><p>“Come,” said Norman, “there’s nothing to distress yourself about. We
don’t know that this is your brother’s lorry. Perhaps it may not be.”</p><p>She swallowed once or twice. “I—I should know Billy’s lorry,” she said
at last. “I think so.” She looked up at him pitifully. “It has
horseshoes on it.”</p><p>He spoke to her very gently, immensely kind. “Then let’s just have a
look at it together,” he suggested. “Two heads are better than one,
aren’t they? And you can tell me if you see anything you recognise.”</p><p>I stood there looking on at this dumbfounded, amazed at the cleverness
of the man. He had said nothing that was not true. It was true that the
lorry had been burning fiercely when it was discovered, true that he
knew nothing of the driver’s fate. I could see that he would get the
whole of the evidence he wanted without the slightest difficulty; if she
had anything damaging to tell she could commit her brother up to the
hilt without ever knowing she had injured him. The whole of her
examination was being cast into the form of an inquiry into the supposed
death of her brother, and she would tell everything she knew.</p><p>A more educated, more sophisticated girl might possibly have broken out
of the snare that he had made for her by puzzling over the circumstances
that had brought her to that yard; she might have smelt a rat. I could
see that Norman had nothing to fear from that. The girl was very nearly
in tears, hanging back a little from the wreckage in the corner that he
was trying to get her to inspect.</p><p>“Come, Miss Gordon,” he said, “we must just have a look at it, you
know.” There was an air of gentle authority in his voice which made her
come to him at once. Together they walked slowly up the length of that
tangled, rusty mass of iron.</p><p>They moved round to the front. I saw her stop, I saw the muscles of her
face working. I saw her catch her breath as she pointed to something on
the ruins of the radiator. I couldn’t see what it was from where I was
standing. I saw Norman bend down to her, infinitely solicitous.</p><p>“Is that your brother’s?” he asked gently.</p><p>She nodded once or twice, dumbly. “It was a little one—just like that.
He—he said it was a donkey’s…. There was a big one on the back.”</p><p>Norman inclined his head. “We found a big one on the road, underneath,”
he said quietly. “It must have been nailed on to some wooden part.”</p><p>There was an infinite silence in the yard.</p><p>“Come,” said Norman, “just one more look, and then we’ll go indoors. I
want you to tell me if there’s anything else that you can recognise.
There might still be some mistake, you know.”</p><p>They walked together slowly down the other side. The steering column was
bent and twisted down; the thin bare core of the wheel stood up
forlornly. Below the wheel a little clip was mounted carrying a ring,
clumsy, amateurish fitting at the best. She laid her hand on this.</p><p>“He used to put his pipe in that,” she said in a low tone. “He put it on
himself, because he told me.” She turned to him with a trembling lip.
“Please—mayn’t we go indoors now?”</p><p>“I think we may, Miss Gordon,” he said kindly. “There’s nothing more
that we can do out here.” He hesitated for a moment, and then said: “I
am so very, very sorry.”</p><p>She made no reply to that; I don’t think she was capable of saying
anything. She walked across the yard with him towards the door we had
come out of; Fedden and I followed them a few paces behind. It seemed to
me that the art of criminal investigation had advanced a step or two
since Sherlock Holmes.</p><p>At the door Fedden made another effort to get rid of me. “There’s
nothing more for you to stay for, if you’d like to get away,” he said.
“We can take care of her now, and send her back up north.”</p><p>I gave him a grim stare. “I should prefer to stay,” I said shortly. “I
want to see what fancy games you gentlemen are going to play with her.”
He winced at that, as I had meant he should.</p><p>He said something or other, but I brushed past him and followed Norman
into the office. He was already seated at the table there, the girl
opposite him. He gave me a sharp glance as I came in, which I ignored; I
knew that he could do nothing to eliminate me without arousing her
suspicions. I took up a stand on the far side of the room, half turned
away from them, looking out of the window. Fedden came in and closed the
door, and stood by me. At a corner table there was a sergeant taking
notes, armed with a notebook and pencil.</p><p>“Now, Miss Gordon,” Norman was saying, “Just one or two questions that
we have to ask, about this accident. I am sure you won’t mind.”</p><p>She looked up at him dumbly.</p><p>“First of all, what was your brother’s name?”</p><p>She answered in a low voice: “William Hartop Gordon.”</p><p>“And his age?”</p><p>“He was thirty last October.” So she was older than I thought.</p><p>“Where did he live?”</p><p>“It was somewhere in Birmingham, but I don’t know the address. He used
to be in Wolverhampton, up till about a year ago.”</p><p>“Was he a married man?”</p><p>She shook her head without speaking.</p><p>“Do you remember where he lived in Wolverhampton?”</p><p>“He was in lodgings. Twenty–nine Elmer’s Crescent was the address.”</p><p>Norman smiled at her kindly. “Just one or two more questions, Miss
Gordon.” He paused. “When did you see your brother last?”</p><p>She swallowed. “In Leeds. I think it was about a month ago. You see, he
came and booked me out.”</p><p>“I see,” said Norman; “and you went out with him. Did you go in his
lorry?”</p><p>She tried to speak, and failed. She shook her head, and then she said, a
little piteously: “Please, do you think I might have a glass of water?”</p><p>The sergeant rose, lumbering from his table, and went out of the room;
he returned in a minute with a dripping cup. She took it from him
gratefully and drank; Norman sat patiently till she had finished.</p><p>“That’s better,” he said kindly. “Now, Miss Gordon did your brother work
for anybody? or was this lorry his own property?”</p><p>She said: “I think it was his own.”</p><p>“I see.” He was silent for a minute, and then: “Did he ever tell you
what work he used to do, or who he used to work for? I mean, whose loads
he used to carry in the lorry?”</p><p>She said: “Oh, yes.” I swung round sharply by the window, and she
stopped and looked at me.</p><p>“That’s enough of this damn foolery,” I said harshly.</p><p>There was a momentary silence. I stood there staring down at Norman at
the table, watching the deep colour mounting in his face. He turned and
beckoned to the sergeant, who got up and came towards me. “I’ll see you
about that afterwards, Commander Stevenson,” he said easily. “In the
meantime, perhaps you wouldn’t mind waiting outside?”</p><p>The sergeant opened the door for me.</p><p>I laughed shortly. “If you like,” I said. “In that case I shall go
straight up to town. I can get a question asked about this matter in the
House tonight.”</p><p>Fedden stirred uneasily beside me, and I swung round viciously on him.
“Yes, by Christ,” I said, “and you’ll be in it, too. Chief Constable of
the County!” And I laughed again.</p><p>“Don’t be a fool, Stevenson,” he retorted, not unkindly. “You must go
home and leave this thing to us.”</p><p>“I’m damned if I do,” I said.</p><p>The girl sat staring at us, red eyed and uncomprehending, gripping a
little wad of handkerchief in her lap. Norman got up from the table. “I
think it would be better for us to talk this over outside,” he said
smoothly. “In consideration for Miss Gordon.”</p><p>“I don’t,” I said curtly.</p><p>I crossed the room to where the girl was sitting by the table. “You’d
better come along with me,” I said. “We’re going home.”</p><p>“Sit down!” said Norman sharply. She collapsed into her chair again, and
I saw a tear fall down her cheek. He turned on me, red with anger. “As
for you, sir, you must get out of this room. Go to town or go to hell
for all I care. Get out!”</p><p>I put one foot up on to a chair and stared at him; there was an awkward
silence after that outburst. “I’m a friend of Miss Gordon’s,” I said at
last. “I want this inquiry adjourned till she has had an opportunity to
consult her solicitor.”</p><p>Fedden broke in. “Don’t talk such nonsense,” he said irritably. “The
girl hasn’t got a solicitor.”</p><p>I raised my eyebrows. “Louden, Jenkinson and Priestley are acting for
her,” I replied. “Either Jenkinson or his junior will be here tonight.”</p><p>Norman broke in: “That’s a London firm.”</p><p>“Don’t be a damn fool,” I said sourly. “Do you think I put my business
with a hedge solicitor?”</p><p>There was a momentary silence, and I followed up: “I would have you
understand that I am making formal application for an adjournment of
this inquiry, in order that Miss Gordon may take legal advice. You
clearly understand that, Major Norman?—and Colonel Fedden?” I swung
round on the sergeant. “You too. You may have to give evidence on this
in Court. You understand what I want?”</p><p>“That’s enough,” said Norman sharply. “He understands well enough.”</p><p>The girl stirred beside me as if she wanted to say something, but I
silenced her with a motion. “Look here,” I said to Norman, “you want to
get to the bottom of this thing; so do I. I want to know who cracked me
on the head that night. But I’ll be no party to a trick like this.”</p><p>Fedden stirred. “Have you any alternative procedure to suggest?” he
asked coldly.</p><p>I eyed him for a moment. “None at all. My solicitor deals with
legal—and illegal—matters of this sort for me. I think you will find
that he is able to suggest some alternative procedure to this sort of
thing.” I paused. “I imagine that he will advise Miss Gordon to make a
statement to you, under his guidance.”</p><p>Norman interposed: “She can make a statement now. This matter is
urgent.” He swung round on me. “You’re playing the fool with matters you
don’t understand. How do you know what this delay may mean?”</p><p>I shrugged my shoulders. “You’ll have to take your chance of that.
You’ve waited four days for me to bring her here, and you can wait a
fifth for her solicitor.” I considered for a moment. “I’ll say this for
her: Miss Gordon will give you a statement of some sort tomorrow
afternoon.”</p><p>“Tomorrow morning,” he said.</p><p>I shook my head. “It can’t be done. Jenkinson can’t get here till late,
and Miss Gordon won’t be fit to work with him tonight. Tomorrow
afternoon.”</p><p>He turned on his heel and swung over to the door. “You’d better see your
friend off the premises,” he said bitterly to Fedden, and then he was
gone. Fedden said something or other, but I ignored him and turned to
where the girl was sitting by the table. She turned a tear–streaked face
to me.</p><p>“Please, Mr Stevenson,” she said—“oh, I mean, Commander Stevenson—I’m
sorry, I didn’t mean—” She abandoned that sentence and started again.
“I don’t quite understand what’s been happening,” she said, a little
pitifully.</p><p>I smiled. “I know you don’t,” I said. “I’ll tell you about it when we
get home. We’ll get along now and”—I searched my brain for words of
feminine comfort—“you can have a cup of tea and a bit of cake, and lie
down for a bit if you want to. Come on.” I stared around. “Got all your
things?”</p><p>She got up and picked her bag up from the table. “There’s one thing you
may as well know right away,” I said. “Your brother’s all right. He
wasn’t in that lorry when it got burnt up.”</p><p>She stared at me. “Did he go to Hammersmith?” Fedden was there, all
ears, and I said hurriedly: “That’s enough about that.”</p><p>I spoke sharply, I suppose, because she started crying in real earnest
then. I was too much occupied in getting her out of the building before
she put her foot in it again to pay much heed to that. I got her out and
into the Bentley in double quick time, and she sat there crying by my
side as we slid out of the town. A policeman on point duty looked
curiously at us as we swept past, and I wondered if he thought I was
abducting her. If I were, I reflected, it was from the police.</p><p>She dried up after a mile or two, but all that drive we never spoke a
word. I thought it best to leave her to herself, and so we went along in
silence all the way. We got back to the house at about half–past twelve.
I left the car standing on the drive and took her through into the
library, sat her down in a chair, reached out for the telephone and put
in a trunk call to Jenkinson. Then I turned to her.</p><p>“Now,” I said, “what are you going to have? Cup of tea? Lunch will be
ready in about three–quarters of an hour.”</p><p>She shook her head miserably. “Please, I don’t want anything.”</p><p>I stood there looking down at her, and thought that I had never seen a
girl less likely to enjoy her lunch than this one. I rang the bell, and
told Rogers to get her a cup of Bovril and some toast. It was the best
thing I could think of. “You needn’t have it if you don’t want it when
it comes,” I said. “You can just sniff at it then go upstairs and lie
down if you want to.”</p><p>She smiled up at me weakly. “You’re ever so kind to me.” And then she
said: “I don’t understand a bit what happened over there.”</p><p>“No,” I said, “I don’t suppose you do.” I paused for a minute, and lit a
cigarette. “It’s a very long story and I’m not going to tell you
now—not all of it. I’ll tell you after dinner tonight, when you’ve had
a rest. But the bit you want to know now is this.”</p><p>I paused, and looked at her reflectively. “Those men over there were
police officers,” I said. “Did you know that?”</p><p>She shook her head. “I didn’t know who they were.”</p><p>“Well,” I said, “you know now. They were playing a trick on you. They
wanted to find out something about your brother.”</p><p>She stared at me, her brows wrinkled in perplexity. “They said he’d had
an accident.”</p><p>I shook my head. “Not him. He wasn’t in that lorry when it got burnt
up—he’s very much alive somewhere. They just told you that for a trick,
so that you would tell them everything you knew about him. You would
have done, wouldn’t you?”</p><p>She stared at me, wide eyed. “Of course I would.” And then she said:
“What did they want to know about him for? Has he done anything wrong?”</p><p>I shook my head. “I’ll tell you this evening,” I replied. “It’s nothing
very bad. He’s got himself mixed up in a much bigger business. But you
don’t want to worry about that. It’s going to be all right.”</p><p>Her Bovril came then, and my trunk call. I picked up the telephone and
spoke to Jenkinson in London.</p><p>“Look here,” I said, “I’ve got myself into a bit of a mess down here,
I’m afraid, with the police. Yes; no, not a motoring offence—something
rather more serious than that. I’ve got a CID man from Scotland Yard
down here sitting on my doorstep waiting for a statement. Yes. Do you
think you could slip down tonight? One of your juniors would do if you
can’t, but I’d very much rather you came if you can, old boy. If it’s
not terribly inconvenient. That’s really very decent of you. Well, you
can catch the 5.30—gets to Exeter at 8.45. That’s the easiest way.
Tonight, that is. Yes I’ll have the car there, at Exeter, at 8.45. Right
you are. See you then. Goodbye.”</p><p>I hung up the receiver. “That’s your solicitor,” I said. “He’s coming
down tonight.”</p><p>She wrinkled her brows. “Is that what you were speaking about over
there?” she asked. “From London?”</p><p>“That’s right,” I said.</p><p>“Oh—” And then she said: “Please, I don’t think you quite understand—”
She came to an end there, and I was puzzled; I couldn’t make out what
she was driving at.</p><p>“Couldn’t I have somebody from here?”</p><p>I stared at her. “But this is one of the best men in the country—much
better than anyone in a little town like this. He’ll have these
policemen absolutely taped. He handles all my work.”</p><p>“I know—” She hesitated. “But coming all down from London like that.
You see, I haven’t got very much money.” She looked up at me
appealingly. “You do understand, don’t you?”</p><p>I was silent for a minute. When I spoke, I said: “My dear, he’s coming
down for me. I didn’t mean it to cost you anything at all.”</p><p>She was troubled. “I don’t know what to say. It’s bound to cost a
terrible lot, coming all that way.”</p><p>I smiled, a little ironically. “Not more than I can afford,” I said. She
had finished her toast and Bovril. “Now look here, you’d better go
upstairs and tidy yourself. You’d like some lunch, wouldn’t you?”</p><p>She shook her head.</p><p>“All right,” I said. “Go and lie down for a bit, or have a bath, or
anything you like.” She smiled. “I’ve got to go down to my office after
lunch, but I’ll be back about half–past four and we’ll have tea in here.
In the meantime, you can explore the place. You can go anywhere you
like, you know,” and I told her roughly the boundaries of my land. “Only
don’t go bathing till I show you where to go. The tide runs out a bit
fast round this point.”</p><p>She nodded obediently, and went upstairs. I went in and ate my lunch
alone, and then took the car and went down to the yard. I spent the
afternoon with Tillotson in the office, getting the hang of what had
happened in my absence in the north. I had a ketch docking for a refit
that day on the evening flood, the <span class="emphasis"><em>Sweet Anna</em></span>, and I should have
stayed to see her in. I usually do. But that afternoon I broke my rule
and left the ship to Tillotson, and I went back to Sixpence in my house.</p><p>I found her in the model room when I got back. I saw her as I passed
into the hall. She was sitting quietly on the window–seat gazing out
through the open window over the sunlit garden to the deep blue sea. I
don’t know what I had expected to find her doing, but I was surprised.
She seemed to be doing nothing at all but sit there looking out over the
harbour mouth. In an idle moment I might have sat like that myself.</p><p>She got up when I came in. “I’ve been looking at the little ships,” she
told me. “They are lovely, aren’t they?”</p><p>I turned with her and looked at them. This room is a hobby for me, a
room of reminiscences. One or two of the models are historical, the
caravel and the fifteenth–century pinnace, but most of them are little
vessels of my own, ships that I have owned or sailed in in my time, that
I keep for remembrance and as pointers of experience. At the moment
there are fourteen in the little fleet; all sail except the trawler,
<span class="emphasis"><em>Martin Dodd</em></span>.</p><p>Rogers brought tea to us in there and I moved about the room with
Mollie, bread and butter in hand, talking to her about my little ships.
She was interested and asked a lot of questions, and so we went round
the room till finally we brought up at the <span class="emphasis"><em>Jane Ellen</em></span>.</p><p>Sometimes I have thought that it would be better if I didn’t keep that
model, and I have considered sending it to some museum. But there it is
still, and she paused beside it. “What are those things on the deck?”
she asked. “Are they guns?”</p><p>I nodded. “Those three are guns, and those two there are depth–charge
throwers. That’s a vessel I was in in the war.”</p><p>She looked up at me, puzzled. I noticed that she had done something to
her eyelashes. They were no longer waxed together in little groups, but
lay long and soft upon her cheek. I wondered if that was because she had
been crying, that they had come unstuck. “But it’s a sailing ship,” she
said.</p><p>“Yes,” I said, “we used them in the war a bit.” I paused. “I wasn’t in
her very long.”</p><p>I turned away and went back to the tea, and asked how she had spent the
afternoon. She said, a little diffidently, that she hadn’t been
outside—“it was all so lovely.” I took her out on to the terrace and
showed her the lie of the hills and of the sea, and then we went down
into the garden in the sun.</p><p>We spent all evening strolling round the place. Counting the Melcrose
land I have about three hundred acres now but most of this is waste
stuff—cliff and bracken. In the made gardens I found that she knew
quite a lot about flowers and shrubs—rather more than I do, in fact.
She had had a little garden of her own in Preston when she was living at
home as a child. I took her through the hot houses, but I don’t think
she cared much for those; she peered uncomprehendingly into the empty
stalls of the stables. She was delighted with the fuzzy.</p><p>We call it the fuzzy, but I don’t know if that’s the proper name for it.
It’s the coppice that fills the little ravine that runs down to my
bathing beach. A stream runs down the middle of it in little waterfalls
and it’s a great place for wild flowers—bluebells and primroses, and
all that sort of thing. The path goes winding down the middle of it, and
now and then as you go down to the beach you get a good view of the sea
at the entrance. There is a beach at one of the corners, and we paused
by that.</p><p>In the Range <span class="emphasis"><em>Sweet Anna</em></span> lay at anchor, waiting for the ebb to slacken
before going in. The wind was light, and she lay at anchor with both
main and mizzen set, and swaying gently in the roll. As we watched the
main came slowly down in great folds upon the deck; I stood and watched
the hands gathering it up.</p><p>Mollie stirred beside me. “What’s that ship?” she asked. “Doesn’t she
look lovely there?”</p><p>They were lashing the gaff down on the boom. “All ships are lovely,” I
said, without taking my eyes from her. “That’s one of mine.”</p><p>“Oh—” she said. And then she said: “What’s she doing out there?”</p><p>I glanced down at her. “Waiting for the tug,” I said. “It should be here
any minute now. We’ll wait and see.”</p><p>We sat down on the beach in the sun. “She’s a cargo ship, isn’t she?”
she asked. “Goods, and that?”</p><p>I nodded. “She hasn’t got anything in her now. She’s just come up from
Falmouth in ballast. She’s come in to refit.”</p><p>The <span class="emphasis"><em>Trojan</em></span> came bustling into sight down the harbour, shoving a bow
wave away from her broad bows. I saw her with pleasure as I always do;
that tug is one of my extravagances. I bought her two years ago after a
quarrel with the harbour tug–master and, buying a tug, I saw that I got
a good one. Twin screw, driven by a couple of heavy oil engines, each of
about three hundred horsepower, she’s a good seaworthy rough–weather
boat; I’d rather go to sea in her than in our motor lifeboat any day.
For my work, of course, she is too good. Too powerful, and more
expensive than she need have been. That’s probably why I’m fond of her.</p><p>She ranged up alongside <span class="emphasis"><em>Sweet Anna</em></span> in the calm sea, and they began to
manhandle a hawser to her. Mollie turned to me. “What’s that they’re
doing now?” she asked.</p><p>“Passing the tow rope.” I saw them man the windlass, and across the
harbour mouth I heard the clanking of the pawls and the groaning of the
chain. “They’re getting up anchor now.”</p><p>They broke it out and we watched the <span class="emphasis"><em>Trojan</em></span> forge ahead, watched the
foam gathering at her stem as she put on power, watched <span class="emphasis"><em>Sweet Anna</em></span>
stir and move ahead. They catted her anchor as she went, and we sat
there watching tug and vessel till they passed from sight behind the
point.</p><p>“Oh … ” said Mollie. “Was she really yours?”</p><p>I smiled. “She was. We’ll go and have a look at her tomorrow, if you
like.”</p><p>In the evening everything was very gold and blue. “Oh,” she said, “it
must be lovely to have ships like that.”</p><p>We went on down to the beach; there was a great calm over everything
that night, and a faint easterly wind. I showed her the little hut that
she could bathe from when she liked, and showed her the current running
past the Checkstone buoy. “We’ll come down and bathe tomorrow, if it’s
fine,” I said. “I don’t know if we’ll get Jenkinson to come in.”</p><p>We walked slowly back up through the wood towards the house. In the
fuzzy there were thrushes calling in the evening, and high above our
heads the seagulls swept along the cliff against a deep blue sky. We
went up through the garden to the house, and stopped on the terrace to
pick a few roses for her room.</p><p>It was getting on for dinnertime when we went in. She paused for a
moment at the window leading into the library and turned to me. “It has
been lovely going round like this, just sort of quietly,” she said. She
stood looking out over the harbour mouth. “I do think it’s beautiful
here.”</p><p>I turned into the house. “Let’s get a vase to put these roses in.”</p><p>She went and fetched one from her room, and I stood by the window and
watched her while she pottered about arranging the flowers, clipping the
stalks and talking about little trivial things. I could have given her
nothing that pleased her more at the moment than those flowers for her
bedroom, flowers that she had picked herself. I stood there listening to
her talk and wondering, a little grimly, if I should ever learn to
please a girl except by accident. It was time to dress for dinner, then,
and she carried them carefully upstairs with her, and made me come into
her room to see how nice they looked.</p><p>I didn’t stay there long. She had filled that bedroom with her
personality; in some subtle way it had become peculiarly her own. I left
her there and went on to my own room to dress. I must have taken rather
longer than usual that night because she was down first; I found her in
the hall examining the player–piano there.</p><p>I spoke a word or two to her, and she looked up at me. “Do you think I
might play on it sometimes?” She looked doubtful. “I mean, when you’re
at the office, or like that.”</p><p>I smiled. “Play on it any time you like,” I said. “I’ll show you where
the rolls are kept.”</p><p>She followed me to the cupboard. “I didn’t mean that way,” she murmured.
“I mean really play it. It does play properly as well, doesn’t it?”</p><p>I turned to her in surprise. “Oh, yes. Do you play much?”</p><p>She shook her head. “I never had more than a few lessons. But I do love
a piano.”</p><p>She dropped her hands on to the keys and touched a chord. “Carry on,” I
said.</p><p>She moved away hurriedly. “Oh, I couldn’t now. I don’t know very many
pieces.”</p><p>She was always giving me little surprises of that sort. We went into
dinner. She was wearing a dark blue dancing dress with a silver bodice;
she had made herself look very pretty in it and I told her so. That set
her smiling, and we dined merrily that night. I offered her Pommard,
Barsac, or Château Yquem to drink, and found to my surprise that she
knew something about wines. She said: “Could I have Barsac? I do like
that. It’s a sort of sweet, like lemonade, isn’t it?” And so we had the
Barsac that night.</p><p>Later we retired to sit in opposite corners of the chesterfield in the
library, full of Barsac and roast duck and caramel pudding, and when
Rogers had served our coffee and departed I told her everything I knew
about her business. I told her how I had blundered into the affair when
I had been as drunk as a lord, and how I had got what I deserved. And
then I went on and told her the whole thing, how she had given me a
cross bearing on the matter on that first night in the Palais by
speaking of her brother and his lorry; I told her about Stenning and his
tale of Rotterdam. Then I told her about the gun that Fedden had showed
me, and how I had been with him to Scotland Yard. I didn’t hide anything
from her; I told her how I had been sent to Leeds to get more
information out of her, and how I had brought her down with me under
false pretences to comfort her with the lorry.</p><p>She listened to me for the most part in silence, now and again asking
trivial little questions. I am not sure that she ever really understood
the inwardness of the affair. Finally I came to the incidents of the
morning, and explained to her how she had been tricked into giving
evidence about her brother.</p><p>I came to an end, and we sat for a little time in silence; she didn’t
seem to have anything much to say about it all. “I’m not very proud of
my part in this affair,” I said at last.</p><p>She stared at me helplessly. “I don’t know what to say. You didn’t do
anything wrong. Lots of gentlemen could have been terribly nasty, but
you weren’t.”</p><p>I smiled; her mind, I thought, was running in a groove. “In any case,” I
said, “you needn’t worry much about this thing. Jenkinson’s a good man.
I think you’ll find that Billy will come out of it all right.”</p><p>She didn’t seem to be much interested in him. Perhaps she had confidence
in his ability to get himself out of any scrape he got himself into. “I
don’t understand,” she said at last. “If you were on their side, why did
you upset everything this morning like you did? They were terribly angry
with you, weren’t they?”</p><p>I smiled, a little grimly. “I don’t know. Yes, I suppose they were.”</p><p>She wrinkled her brows. “I don’t see why you went against them like
that.”</p><p>I was silent for a minute. “You can’t stand by and see a trick like that
go on,” I said at last. “You might with a stranger, but not with
somebody you know.”</p><p>She stared across at me with wonder in her eyes. “Oh,” she said softly.
“You mean you did all that for me….”</p><p>There was a long silence after she said that. Presently she leaned
across to me. “Please,” she said simply, “I think I’d like to go to bed
now, if I may. I’m so tired. You said it would be all right if I saw the
lawyer in the morning, didn’t you?”</p><p>And so she went, and I was left to wait for Jenkinson alone.</p><div class="footnotes" epub:type="footnotes"><br/><hr class="footnote-hr"/><div id="ftn.idp140228861165104" class="footnote" epub:type="footnote"><p><a href="#idp140228861165104" class="para"><sup class="para">[1] </sup></a>This vessel was on the stocks at the decease of her designer. She was
purchased and completed by Mr L. A. Stone of Salcombe, who christened
her <span class="emphasis"><em>Mazurka III</em></span>. — ed.</p></div></div></section><footer/></body></html>
