<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:pls="http://www.w3.org/2005/01/pronunciation-lexicon" xmlns:ssml="http://www.w3.org/2001/10/synthesis" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><head><title>Chapter 8</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook-epub.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="epubbooks.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Stylesheets Vsnapshot_9885"/><link rel="prev" href="13.xhtml" title="Chapter 7"/><link rel="next" href="15.xhtml" title="Chapter 9"/></head><body><header/><section class="chapter" title="Chapter 8" epub:type="chapter" id="id70116620937180"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h1 class="title">Chapter 8</h1></div></div></div><p>That evening we went up to Thompson’s field and sat and waited for the
aeroplane. Mollie had gone up to her room directly after lunch, and had
come down in half an hour to find me working in the model room. She had
changed into a jumper and an old brown skirt, and she had come to ask me
if she would do. “I haven’t put hardly any powder on, or anything,” she
informed me. “Do you think I’ll be all right like this for Lady
Stenning?”</p><p>Her mind was still running on Joan. I laid my set–square down and
grinned at her. “You’re quite all right,” I replied. “Looking very nice.
You don’t want a lot of powder and stuff in those sort of clothes. It
doesn’t go, does it?”</p><p>She smiled, and looked up at me. “You don’t like a lot of that, do you?”
she inquired. “It’s funny how people are about that. Lots of the
gentlemen just don’t care about taking you out unless you’ve got a lot
on.”</p><p>She glanced down at her shoes; they were black, high heeled, and
ornamental. “I didn’t bring my other pair of walking shoes down with
me,” she said ruefully. “I thought they’d be too old for me to bring
here. Does it matter?”</p><p>I laughed. “Not a hoot. But would you like to get a pair of country
shoes? We’ll slip down in the car, if you like.”</p><p>She said: “I’d love it, ever so. But not now—when you’ve finished
working.” And she indicated the drawing board.</p><p>“Playing,” I said, “up here. I do my work down at the office.”</p><p>“What is it?” she inquired.</p><p>I moved aside the T–square for her to examine the drawing. “It’s a
ship,” I said. “The hull layout of a little yacht I want to build.”</p><p>She stared at it, uncomprehending. “You do love ships,” she said at
last. “I wish I knew about them more.”</p><p>And so we left the house and went down to the town at gossip time, and
drew the Bentley up before the local shoe emporium to provide fresh
matter for discussion at the local tea tables. I knew all that before we
went, of course, but Mollie came back in new brown brogues with
tasselled laces and was happy for the afternoon.</p><p>They say that a man has licence to take off whatever clothes he puts on
to a girl. I thought that I might take that risk, with shoes.</p><p>We sat on the gate to Thompson’s field for half an hour and waited for
the aeroplane. We heard it first, and then we saw it in the sky, a speck
above Kingswear. We watched it closer till the engine was shut off above
the harbour, and the Moth came in on a wide gliding turn, side–slipped
down across the hedge, and ran gently to rest in the middle of the
field. Stenning swung her round and taxied in towards us; Mollie turned
to me: “Wasn’t it pretty the way it did that?”</p><p>“He’s not got much to learn about an aeroplane,” I said.</p><p>Joan waved a hand from the front cockpit as they drew abreast of us; I
got on to the wing tip and guided the machine towards the barn. Stenning
taxied up to it and throttled back; then he reached out and switched off
the engine. The propeller kicked and came to rest, and the silence of
the evening closed on us again.</p><p>Stenning heaved himself up out of the rear cockpit and jumped down; he
was in plus fours and a flying helmet. Joan came climbing down the plane
from the front seat.</p><p>“Had a good trip?” I asked.</p><p>“Thick as far as Salisbury,” said Stenning. He pulled his helmet off and
smoothed his hair. “You’ve got it nice down here.”</p><p>Joan dropped down on to the ground. She had taken off her helmet, and
she shook her shingled hair into some sort of order. “Cheer–oh,
Malcolm,” she remarked. “You’re looking very fit.”</p><p>“So I am,” I said. “A bat or two still flying round the belfry, perhaps,
but nothing to make a song about.” I turned to Sixpence: “Joan, I want
you to meet Miss Gordon. She’s staying here with me for a few days.”</p><p>Lady Stenning stopped scratching her hair and composed her features into
a smile. “Afternoon,” she said. “I hope he’s been remembering his duties
as a host. He doesn’t often, I may say.”</p><p>Sixpence smiled diffidently, and said: “Good afternoon.”</p><p>I turned to Stenning. He was staring at Mollie in perplexity, slowly
passing one hand over his disordered hair. “But we’ve met before,” he
said. “Of course we have.” He looked inquiringly at her. “Now where the
devil was that?”</p><p>I asked in some surprise: “Do you two know each other, then?”</p><p>“I’m damn sure we do,” said Sir Philip. “We’ve met some place or other.”
He smiled at her. “I’m so sorry, but I can’t just pin it down.”</p><p>I glanced at Mollie. She caught my eye despairingly, sending an appeal
for help. Something was evidently wrong; I didn’t know what, but I did
all I could to help her out. “Perhaps you met him at some party,” I
remarked. “I’ve often met people like that, and couldn’t think of where
we’d met before.”</p><p>She forced a smile. “We did meet once before. But I didn’t know you were
Sir Philip Stenning, then.”</p><p>“Don’t suppose I was,” said Stenning equably. “But where was it that we
met?”</p><p>There was nothing for it, then. “In the Salford Road Palais de Danse,”
said Mollie bravely. “In Manchester—about two years ago. You came in
one night with a party, rather late, and booked me for the evening.”</p><p>There was a momentary silence after that—the very slightest pause. I
moved to her and slipped my arm through hers. “Miss Gordon teaches
dancing in the North,” I said easily. “She’s spending her summer holiday
down here with me.”</p><p>Stenning had recovered by that time. “By God, yes,” he replied. “I
remember now. I was with Dick Annesley and Holt. I say, it’s splendid
meeting you again down here.”</p><p>And Joan said practically: “Now’s the time to get my quick–step right.
Philip’s always going on at me because I can’t do enough tricks.” She
turned to Mollie: “I’d love it if you’d show me, some time.”</p><p>I sent a little message of my thanks to Joan. “Of course, I’d love to,
Lady Stenning,” Mollie said. “I know some lovely new ones that Pagani
did last season, ever so pretty.”</p><p>“That’s a bet,” said Joan. We tinned to pushing the machine towards the
barn. Before the opening Stenning folded back the wings; we pushed the
Moth in under cover and collected their belongings from the locker. Then
we made off towards the house, the girls walking ahead of Stenning and
myself.</p><p>We went inside and Mollie went upstairs with Joan; Stenning and I turned
into the library for a drink. He raised it with a meaning twinkle in his
eye. “Luck!” he said. “Boys will be boys.”</p><p>I met his glance. “I brought her down from Leeds three days ago,” I said
simply. “She’s in this business that you want to know about. Norman had
a good go at her yesterday, but he didn’t get much out of her.”</p><p>He raised his eyebrows, swallowed down his drink, and set the glass down
on the table by his side. “You’ve got to keeping some damn funny
company, these days,” he said. “Not but what the girl’s all right. Nice,
quiet little bit—or was when I met her. But I’d never have thought to
find you with the CID.”</p><p>I nodded. “You’re right there. I’ve had my fill of your friend Norman in
the last two days.”</p><p>I told him that we’d have a talk about it after dinner, and took him up
and showed him to his room. Mollie was in her room with Joan; I heard
them talking as we passed the door. It seemed that they were getting on
all right; I might have known I could rely on Joan. I passed along and
saw that Stenning had everything he wanted in his place; then I went to
my own room to wash.</p><p>I forget what we talked about that night at dinner, but it went all
right. The party had settled down, and Mollie was no longer shy of Joan.
I sat on with Stenning after dinner in the dining–room, after the ladies
had gone through into the south room, and over the port I told him
everything I knew about the business.</p><p>He was intensely interested. He told me that Norman had been on to him
in London to find out what he had heard in Rotterdam; he had had some
dealings with Norman previously in his chequered career, and knew Sir
David Carter. I found that he had told Norman a great deal more about
the episode in Rotterdam than he had mentioned on the yacht. It seemed
to hinge about a conversation in a café on the quays, and it went
somehow like this:</p><p>Stenning had gone to this café for a drink. He was with another man,
some engineer or pilot from the aerodrome, and they sat down in the
sunshine at a table on the pavement outside. The window of the place was
open above their heads and the door was open at their side; in this
position they could not be seen from inside the café premises.</p><p>They sat there for the most part in silence, not having much to say to
each other, sipping their drinks and looking out over the harbour.
Inside the room some conversation was in progress about a shipping
contract, the majority of which they overheard through door and window.
Stenning sat there on the pavement in the sun, listening idly, not
taking very much in. In fact, he never really thought of it again until
he spoke of carpet sweepers to me that evening on the yacht.</p><p>The conversation was in English. One of the talkers was apparently the
captain of a vessel, a young man by the voice, educated, and English.
The other one was probably a Dutchman or a German, speaking English with
a strong accent. Stenning never saw either of the speakers.</p><p>The contract was for shipping carpet sweepers and relays—electrical
relays, perhaps, but Stenning did not know. Fifteen sweepers and
thirty–eight relays were involved; the smallness of these quantities
mildly attracted his attention. Delivery was to be made to Berth No.
16A; an advice note had been sent to the Professor. Stenning heard
nothing to explain who the Professor was.</p><p>That was all he could remember of the conversation, which indeed had
hardly attracted his attention at the time. Later on the same afternoon,
however, he had occasion to go down to the docks to see to the unloading
of an engine in connection with his work. Walking along the quays he
recollected berth No. 16A, and had the curiosity to look and see what
sort of vessel was involved. He found a small, single–masted sailing
vessel of some forty or fifty tons, a sloop or bawley—he would not be
certain which. She was an English rig. He only gave her a casual glance,
for he was in a hurry. His impression was of a vessel that was little
more than a smack; he retained the memory, however, of a cargo hatch. A
crabber, or some vessel of that sort.</p><p>That was the sum of Stenning’s evidence. It had not provided Norman with
a lot to go upon, because Stenning had seen neither of the talkers and
was by no means sure that he would be able to identify the boat again.
He had only looked down on her, quite casually, from the top of the
quay.</p><p>Norman had made a search through the police archives at the yard for the
Professor, and had found at least fifteen. He said that every gang in
his experience possessed some member, generally of a higher standard of
intelligence than the others, who was described like that.</p><p>I sat on for some time in the dining–room discussing it with Stenning,
but we didn’t get much forrader. Finally the clock struck ten, and
roused me to the time. It was over an hour since the ladies had gone out
and left us talking with the port. I got a little worried then that
Sixpence might have fallen down and hurt herself with Joan, and so I
rose, and we went through to the south room.</p><p>As it turned out, I need not have been alarmed. We found them playing
the gramophone and talking about knitted cross–stitch jumpers, or
something of that sort, and eating a box of chocolates that Joan must
have brought down with her. I could see that they were getting on all
right, and I heaved a sigh of relief. I had had visions of finding them
silent in opposite comers of the room; one never knows with girls. Or I
don’t, anyway.</p><p>It was a warm, still, summer night. We walked out on to the terrace in
the dusk and stood there looking out over the Range, talking idly about
the chance of the weather and the sea in the next few days. Stenning was
going west next day in the <span class="emphasis"><em>Irene</em></span>; I had other plans, myself, and
thought of taking Sixpence east.</p><p>In the dim light she came to me and said: “Please, Commander Stevenson,
I think I’m going up to bed, if you don’t mind. I do feel ever so
sleepy.”</p><p>“Right–o,” I said; “I’m going soon myself.” I paused. “I thought if it’s
a fine day tomorrow we’d have an early breakfast and take <span class="emphasis"><em>Runagate</em></span>.”</p><p>She looked up at me, puzzled. “Please—I didn’t understand.”</p><p>I smiled. “It’s the name of my yacht,” I said. “<span class="emphasis"><em>Runagate</em></span>. I thought we
might go sailing all day if it’s fine. Would you like that?”</p><p>She beamed at me. “It would be ever so lovely to do that. I’ve only been
in a sailing boat once, and it was quite rough, and ever such fun.” She
paused reminiscently. “The gentleman that took me, he was sick.”</p><p>Stenning laughed. “Red hot!” he said.</p><p>She laughed with him. “He <span class="emphasis"><em>was</em></span> cross—what with being with me, and the
others laughing at him….” Her voice drifted away to silence in the
dusk; a veil dropped upon the story of that pleasure party. “Goodnight,”
she said, and moved quietly away into the house.</p><p>I turned to Stenning and Joan. “We’d better get off early.” I said,
thinking of the tides. “Breakfast at eight—not later, or we’ll find
ourselves sweating out over the flood.”</p><p>“I thought of that,” said Stenning. “We’ll sail together.” I took a turn
or two with them upon the terrace before going up. At the corner of the
house, in Mollie’s room, I saw the light come on and shine out in the
night. I saw her shadow move and pass upon the curtains of the room. I
knew that Joan was watching, too; I stirred and glanced at her, and our
eyes met.</p><p>“Malcolm,” said Joan, “who is she?” Her curiosity, I suppose was
irresistible. “I mean,” she said, “it’s so unlike you to have anyone.”</p><p>I eyed her grimly. I knew I had to face this questioning, this prying
into my affairs. “She’s just a girl that I picked up in Leeds and
brought down here,” I said defensively. “I gave her ten pounds to come.”</p><p>Joan laughed softly. “You are a funny old stick,” she said, quite
quietly. “You needn’t think you’re going to kid me she’s that sort of
girl, or you’re that sort of man.” She paused. “As a matter of fact, she
told me all about her work, and how you came to meet. But then there was
a lot more that I didn’t quite get the hang of; I don’t know that she
really understood it all herself. All about her brother, and a fire in a
motor–lorry, and the police, and staying on to have a holiday with you.”</p><p>She stopped, and there was a little silence on the terrace; Stenning had
walked a little way away. “Well,” I said, “she seems to have told you
all there is to tell. I haven’t anything to add to it.”</p><p>She stood and eyed me for a moment. And then, quite unexpectedly, she
said: “I think you must have been rather a dear.”</p><p>I stood by the parapet looking out over the harbour mouth; the moon was
coming up in a calm night, and there were wreaths of fog or mist down by
the sea. “Stenning will tell you all I know,” I said at last. “I got
involved in this when I was drunk, and played a dirty trick on her. And
then I didn’t like it when I’d done it. That was all.”</p><p>I didn’t feel inclined to tell her any more, and she didn’t worry me to
do so. So we took a turn or two upon the terrace, till Stenning said: “I
vote we go to bed.”</p><p>“We’d better have a whisky first,” I said. Joan said goodnight to us,
and moved towards the house. I went with her to the window; on the
threshold of the room she turned to me, and said:</p><p>“You’re very lucky, Malcolm. I think she’s simply sweet.” Then she was
gone before I could reply, before I could ask her to explain herself.</p><p>I went with Stenning to the model room, and we had our whisky there. He
wanted the <span class="emphasis"><em>Irene</em></span> got up on the slip as soon as he came back; he said
she wanted caulking at the stem post. She didn’t, as it happened; what
she wanted was new stuffing at the stern tube gland. I fixed up this
with him, and then we too went up to bed.</p><p>I was up early the next day, but Sixpence was before us. I heard her go
downstairs as I was shaving, and saw her in the garden with the Rogers’
dog. It was a misty sort of morning with blue sky above; not a breath of
wind. I knew what that would mean for the day’s sailing—getting up
sails that flapped about and didn’t draw, and trundling along under
power most of the day. Still, it should be calm enough, and it seemed to
me that there might be a little wind from the east to bring us home in
the late afternoon.</p><p>I found her in the garden when I got down, and walked with her for a
little time among the rose beds on the dewy paving. Then we went back
into the house; Stenning was there in sea clothes, dirty flannel
trousers and a fisherman’s jersey. Then Joan came down in much the same
sort of getup. I saw Sixpence looking at them furtively, and smiled.
“You’re not dirty enough for this game,” I said.</p><p>“I didn’t know,” she murmured. “I thought you always did yachting in
white clothes.”</p><p>“Not this sort,” said Stenning. “That’s only when you don’t know how to
sail a boat and have to have a crew.” I think that was unjust, but
Stenning hates a crew. So do I for that matter; paid hands are nothing
but a nuisance on a boat.</p><p>She said again: “I didn’t know. I thought yachts always had a crew, like
on the pictures.”</p><p>Joan laughed, and helped herself to sausages. “They don’t do any washing
up upon the pictures,” she observed. “Or perhaps that’s what the crew’s
for. My experience is that a woman’s place upon a yacht is at the tub.”</p><p>We finished breakfast and collected all their gear together with a
hamper of our own containing lunch, packed everything into the Bentley,
and set off for the yard. Down by the harbour everything was wreathed in
mist, thin, with a visibility of half a mile or so. I knew that this
would clear off as the day went on; we often have it that way in the
summer time.</p><p>At the yard we separated. Joan and Stenning started to unload their
stuff into their dinghy, and I went into my office for a few minutes to
go through the post. There wasn’t very much to do; I came out presently
and saw them pulling out to the <span class="emphasis"><em>Irene</em></span>. My pram was at the steps; I
took Sixpence down and put her in the stern sheets with the hamper, took
the sculls, and set out towards <span class="emphasis"><em>Runagate</em></span> in the next berth.</p><p>Sixpence sat trailing her fingers idly in the water as we went. “It’s
lovely here,” she said, quite quietly. The mist curled round the hills
in slow, thin wreaths; the day was very still. I glanced over my
shoulder. “That’s the vessel,” I remarked to her. “The white cutter.”</p><p>I brought the dinghy alongside, stood up, and held her off from the
topsides. “Hop on board,” I said; she slipped nimbly from the little
pram on to the deck and stooped to take the hamper that I handed up to
her. I let the dinghy drop astern, and followed her on deck. “What do
you think of her?” I asked.</p><p>She stood there for a moment very still upon the deck before replying,
looking round about. “It’s all so … clean,” she said at last. She
looked along the sweet sheer to the bows. “It’s beautiful,” she said.
“The way that she goes up like that in front.”</p><p>I stared at her in surprise; she had picked on one of the outstanding
features of the vessel. “You’ve never seen a boat like this before?” I
asked. “Nor been to sea?”</p><p>She shook her head. “Only in the speedboats at Bridlington, and that
time we went sailing that I told you about.”</p><p>I pursued the point of curiosity. “How did you know that it was right
for her to be like that? That sheer up to the bows?”</p><p>She stared at me in perplexity. “The sea wouldn’t come over so much,
would it?”</p><p>I stood and looked at her. “You must have had to do with ships to know
that much,” I said. “Think, now.”</p><p>She shook her head. “Only my grandpa. He used to work in some place
where ships were built, in Scotland. But he died when I was small.”</p><p>I nodded slowly, and we went below. She followed me, wondering, as I
showed her through the ship. The forecastle, she thought, was terribly
small to do the cooking in. She fell in love with the saloon, with the
satinwood panels, with the little racks and cupboards, with the
recording aneroid in springs. She didn’t quite know what to say about
the sleeping cabin, with the engine casing down between the bunks.</p><p>She turned to me at last: “It would be fun to really live upon a boat
like this—for weeks, like.”</p><p>I smiled. “You’d like it?” I inquired. “It’s very rough sometimes, you
know.”</p><p>She nodded. “Fancy sleeping in these little beds….”</p><p>I took her up on deck again, and we began preparing to cast off. She was
intelligent and quick about the deck; I was continually reminded that
she was a dancer as she moved nimbly on the cluttered, narrow deck.
Together we got the dinghy alongside, shackled the burton to her bows,
and shifted her on board. It was simple getting under way in that dead
calm; as soon as the engine was running smoothly beneath our feet I went
forward and cast off the mooring chain. The buoy and light line followed
with a splash, and we drifted slowly clear.</p><p>Stenning cast off almost simultaneously with us. I put the clutch in and
the vessel forged ahead in the thin mist, with Stenning following in our
wake. He hailed us presently and I slowed down for him to come up on us
a bit; he ranged <span class="emphasis"><em>Irene</em></span> alongside, a ship’s length away as we went down
the river.</p><p>“Malcolm,” said Joan, “got any salt to spare? We’ve only got a little in
this pot, and I’m putting on a stew.”</p><p>I turned to Mollie. “Come and take her for a minute while I go below,” I
said. She came and took the little wheel, protesting that she didn’t
know about it; in the <span class="emphasis"><em>Irene</em></span> Joan and Stenning stood and watched us,
grinning. I stood with her for a minute showing her how it went, then
handed it to her. “Now, keep her bowsprit on that point of land.” She
took it all in, grimly serious. “Give us a decent berth,” I said to
Stenning, and went down below to look for salt.</p><p>There was silence up on deck, so far as there is ever silence in a
vessel under way. Once, as I rummaged in the cupboards, I heard Stenning
say quietly: “Other way; put it the other way. That’s right, now steady
her at that.” In the stern the motor chugged on easily; at the bows I
heard the tinkling ripple from the cutwater. I made a little paper screw
of salt for them and took it up on deck; we were cruising steadily
beside <span class="emphasis"><em>Irene</em></span> and heading directly for the point. “Let her come up a
little now,” I said. “About a hand’s span from the point.” The vessel
swung and steadied on her course.</p><p>“Like that?” asked Mollie.</p><p>I nodded. “That’ll do.”</p><p>The water of the harbour mouth was glassy calm, boiling a little here
and there with eddies from the tide. Stenning ranged his vessel
alongside and Joan reached out and took the salt from me, than they
sheered off again. Mollie made as if to give the helm to me.</p><p>“Keep it a bit,” I said; “you’re doing fine.” I glanced ahead. “Keep on
as she is; you don’t want to go too near the point.” I got out of the
cockpit and went forward on the deck, and began trimming her for sea.</p><p>We passed the Battery and motored out into the Range. At sea the mist
was still hanging about in wreaths, the visibility perhaps a mile. I
finished my jobs forward and came aft again, and went down into the
saloon to fetch a cushion for Sixpence at the wheel.</p><p>She beamed at me: “I do think this is lovely.”</p><p>I nodded: “A good game.”</p><p>In the Range we parted company with the <span class="emphasis"><em>Irene</em></span>; Stenning was going on
down west to Salcombe and the Yealm. At the Mewstone I put her round and
headed up along the coast for Berry Head. It was still thick. I put her
on a compass course and taught Sixpence to read the card; she was still
steering the vessel, keen and engrossed. And then I rested for a little
in the cockpit, leaning on the hatch and staring out ahead. I would
never have believed that any girl would pick it up so soon. It was in
her blood, of course; that shipwright grandfather of hers was probably
the last of a long line of merchant seamen. Seafaring is hereditary, I
think; I find it so with my own shipwrights in the yard.</p><p>The mist grew thinner as we drew near Berry Head; it wreathed apart to
show the great, familiar bluff and I felt a faint puff of air upon my
cheek. We drew abreast the Head and I put her on another compass course;
the wind was steadying down into the east, a light air to the heated
land. I went forward and broke out the jib; it flapped and drew lazily
in the sun. I gave her the balloon foresail as well, and went back aft;
I stopped the motor and we went slipping slowly on under headsails
alone. I was in no mood to hurry that day.</p><p>“It’s lovely, going on like this without the motor,” Mollie said.
“Quiet, like.”</p><p>For an hour we drifted on like that, enshrouded in the mist, basking in
the sun upon the hot teak of the cockpit and the hatch. Once a Brixham
vessel loomed up through the haze and crossed our bows, a great tanned
ketch moving slowly under full sail, majestic and imposing on the
water’s face. On our beam the land showed faintly, Paignton way;
occasionally we heard faint sounds of motor horns and barking dogs. For
anyone who prided himself on seamanship it was a shocking way to drift
across the bay, under headsails only on a day like that. Still, it was
pleasant in the sun.</p><p>Then Sixpence roused me. “Oh,” she said, “what’s that?” And pointed dead
ahead.</p><p>The sun and the light wind were banishing the mist. In front of us the
confines of the bay were visible, the flat land rising up into tall
cliffs at the north end. There were hills there, and a wonderful town
upon the hills that followed the slopes down to the tideway; a magic
town, built of white harbour walls and gleaming palaces beside the sea.
All this was still half shrouded in the mist; in the bright sun it was
all shot with colours, gold and blue.</p><table style="border: 0; " class="simplelist" epub:type="list"><tr><td>Like a flight of rose leaves, fluttering in a mist</td></tr><tr><td>Of opal, and ruby, and pearl, and amethyst….</td></tr></table><p>“Oh,” she said again, and turned to me, entranced. “What place is that?”</p><p>I glanced ahead, and turned to knock my pipe out on the rail. “That?” I
said. “Oh, that’s Torquay.”</p><p>I heard her breathe: “Torquay … ” and fell to filling up my pipe
again. And so we stood like that for a little time until she took her
eyes from it, and came to me, and said:</p><p>“You’re ever so good to me, Commander Stevenson. I don’t know what to
say….”</p><p>I muttered: “That’s all right.” And then quite quickly, before I knew
what she was going to do, she reached right up and kissed me on the
cheek.</p><p>I put an arm round her, the hand that hadn’t got my pipe and pouch in
it, and held her for a minute there upon tiptoe; then I let her down
again upon her feet. “That was very nice,” I said, and grinned at her. I
stood there holding her like that with one arm round her shoulders while
I pointed out to her the harbour and the pier; I’m not so sure that she
was paying much attention. And presently I left her and went forward to
uncast the stoppers on the anchor and its chain, and she went back to
con the vessel in. And so that moment passed.</p><p>I dropped anchor in four fathoms about two cables from the westward
harbour pier; it was about half tide. Sixpence came forward from the
idle wheel and watched me veer the chain; then for a quarter of an hour
we leaned on the main–boom and watched the crowds upon the shore through
field–glasses. Then we went below to change for her bathe; first on
deck, I got the dinghy alongside to make it easy for her to get out.</p><p>She came on deck at last in her green bathing dress; on the harbour wall
I saw the telescopes come up at us. We dived in together; she turned and
swam to the bows and hung on to the bob stay and the chain, laughing at
me, then to the dinghy and so out on deck. I went in again alone;
Sixpence was for the sun and the warm woodwork of the deck.</p><p>“I do think Lady Stenning’s awfully nice,” she said as we sat there.</p><p>I blew a cloud of smoke. “That’s what I told you, but you wouldn’t have
it.”</p><p>She wrinkled up her brows. “I know. But she didn’t seem like a Lady, not
to talk to.”</p><p>“Well,” I said, “she wasn’t one last year.”</p><p>She pondered over this for a bit. “She was ever so nice to me,” she said
at last.</p><p>Presently we went down to the saloon and dressed. Rogers had put us up a
sort of picnic lunch: a dressed crab and Chablis, and some sweet or
other. We took it up and ate it in the cockpit in the sun. I had put on
the Primus and we had a cup of coffee after it and sat there smoking for
a time, lazily studying the shore and town.</p><p>Then we went on shore. I sculled the dinghy in through the entrance to
the harbour and in among the yachts moored there in rows; <span class="emphasis"><em>Tern IV</em></span> was
there, and <span class="emphasis"><em>Coral</em></span>, I remember. We went on and left the dinghy in the
inner harbour; up the steps to the quay, and there we were before the
shops.</p><p>We wandered round that town all afternoon. Sixpence had reached the
Mecca of her dreams, the Torquay that had meant so much to her
throughout her life, and she was missing none of it. We went from the
harbour to the pier and then into the gardens where the band was
playing; we looked at the sunshine register and saw the veritable
Station Road itself. Then we went back and found the Palais and had a
look at the outside of that, and then we had to locate Bay View Hotel,
where a friend of hers had spent a holiday one summer with a gentleman,
and had a lovely time. And then we went to look at shops.</p><p>And then that damnable affair cropped up again. It was in the main
street that it happened; I wish to God we’d gone back to the boat. We’d
got about half way along a line of shops, with Sixpence studying
entranced a great variety of articles from furniture to shoes, when we
came to a window that displayed a considerable amount of ladies’
underwear. I stood there while she glued her nose against the pane,
hoping that nobody I knew would pass that way. And suddenly she plucked
my arm.</p><p>“Oh, look,” she said. “That’s where Edna works.”</p><p>She pointed to a ladies’ dummy elegantly attired in nothing but a
corset, and inadequate at that. “Slimline corsetry,” she said. “That’s
where she works. I wonder if she made that one?”</p><p>I didn’t understand. “Who’s Edna?” I inquired.</p><p>She turned to me. “Didn’t I tell you about her in the Leeds Palais?
She’s Billy’s girl.” She paused. “Only she doesn’t seem to care about
him, not like he does her.”</p><p>There seemed to be a sort of silence then; in the busy street the
traffic moved about us, but before the window we were very still. This
was the first that I had heard of this young woman, but I knew just what
it meant. If anyone could tell where Billy was, it would be this girl
Edna in her corset factory.</p><p>I think she saw that it was something serious. “I hadn’t heard of her,”
I said at last. “Where is it that she works?”</p><p>She said: “It’s Hammersmith. But I did tell you, back in the police
station that day. I <span class="emphasis"><em>asked</em></span> if Billy’d gone to Hammersmith.”</p><p>She had, and I had shut her up, and then I had forgotten it. By some
chance it had not come out in Norman’s questioning that this girl might
know where he was; this was the first that we had heard of her.</p><p>“Do you think she’d know where Billy is?” I asked.</p><p>Something of the hard and anxious look that she had had in the dance
hall came back to her as she looked up at me. A shadow had come to dull
the brightness of our day—God knows, it isn’t often that one gets a day
like that. It might have happened at some other time.</p><p>“I think she would,” she said.</p><p>We turned and went back to the dinghy at the harbour steps.</p></section><footer/></body></html>
