<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:pls="http://www.w3.org/2005/01/pronunciation-lexicon" xmlns:ssml="http://www.w3.org/2001/10/synthesis" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><head><title>Chapter 13</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook-epub.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="epubbooks.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Stylesheets Vsnapshot_9885"/><link rel="prev" href="18.xhtml" title="Chapter 12"/><link rel="next" href="20.xhtml" title="Chapter 14"/></head><body><header/><section class="chapter" title="Chapter 13" epub:type="chapter" id="id70116623080280"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h1 class="title">Chapter 13</h1></div></div></div><p>We were dead tired when the anchor dropped. Stenning came stumbling aft
down from the bows, walking like a drunken man and muttering about a
riding light. I clambered stiffly from the wheelhouse and looked round;
in the Cattewater it seemed immensely calm and quiet, and the ship was
still. Fleming came up and sat upon his engine hatch, and for a few
minutes we stood there together, watching the lights from the town
reflected on the rippled, oily sea. We had been out for little more than
twenty hours, but we were very, very tired. It was the seasickness that
did it, I suppose—that and the short, uneasy motion of the tug, that
gave no rest.</p><p>At last I stirred. “Got to go on shore,” I muttered. I turned to
Stenning: “See if you can get Mount Batten or the Citadel with that
signal lamp, and ask them to send a boat, or have one sent. Say that
it’s urgent. I’m going aft to turn those policemen out.”</p><p>I went down to the cuddy. They were sprawling on the bench seats, fast
asleep; I stood there swaying in the fœtid, reeking air, fumbling to
light the lamp that hangs upon the bulkhead. They must have had a rotten
time of it. Most of the time they had been battened down below; I had
not felt that I could trust them upon deck in the conditions we had had,
and it had been impossible to keep the cuddy open in that sea. They lay
on the benches sleeping, exhausted and ill. I bent over the sergeant and
shook him into wakefulness.</p><p>“Wake your man and come on deck,” I said. “We’re anchored in the
Cattewater—at Plymouth. It’s about one o’clock, or getting on that way.
We’re going ashore in a few minutes now.”</p><p>I went on deck again, glad to get out of the place, and found Stenning
busy at the signal lamp. He had got a reply from the Mount Batten
seaplane station, and he was talking to them in quick flashes of Morse
code. At last he stood up and turned to me:</p><p>“I think they’re sending out a launch.”</p><p>We stood and waited in the cold, dark night, interminably. From the
shore we heard the whistling of trains and the long clank of shunting in
the goods yard. The police came up and joined us by the engine–room,
walking unsteadily upon the deck. At last we heard the motor of the
launch; it came alongside with a sergeant in charge, and we persuaded it
to take us to the Citadel.</p><p>It was striking one o’clock when we got on shore. The policemen led the
way, and Stenning and I followed in their wake, down the long, empty
streets towards the police station.</p><p>They knew about us there, but they had heard nothing of the wreck out at
the Shackles. Nobody had seen that vessel go on shore. “They went on the
Shackles in trying to get away from us,” I said. The police confirmed
what I said, and that tale went, and has done till this day.</p><p>They got through on the telephone to Dartmouth and I spoke a little to
Norman at the police station there. I told him briefly my version of
what had occurred; that we had been sticking to their heels and waiting
till some vessel came to help, and that in trying to shake off our
pursuit they had gone ashore. I said that we had done everything that
could be done, which was as true as made no matter. And then I said that
I was coming back to Dartmouth as soon as I could get a car.</p><p>I asked how Mollie and Fedden were getting on. He said: “Both going on
quite all right, I believe. To tell the truth, I’ve not had time to
bother about them for the last few hours. That was at about six o’clock
when I heard last. Fedden was the one they were concerned about—the
shock, you know. The girl was getting on quite well.”</p><p>I told him that I was going to try and get a car, and rang off. There
was some business then with the police; the whole coast had to be
patrolled for bodies or other evidence that might be washed ashore for
fifteen miles each side of the Dodman, and it was evidently necessary
that the watchers should be out by dawn. That took a bit of arranging,
and it was nearly three o’clock when Stenning and I and the two
policemen bundled sleepily into the car that was to drive us home.</p><p>That run seemed interminable. I do it in forty minutes in the Bentley;
in that car it took an hour and a half. It was cold, too. By the time we
crawled up the last hill to my house it was full dawn; Stenning and I
got out on the gravel in front of my house and stared at each other in
the clear, fresh morning light. It was about thirty hours since we had
left the house.</p><p>“Bath,” said Stenning sourly. “God, you want a shave.”</p><p>We went into the house and he went on upstairs. I paused for a minute,
and sat down to the telephone. I rang up the nursing home—the same that
I had visited from time to time. The matron answered me.</p><p>“Commander Stevenson this end,” I said. “I rang up to inquire how
Colonel Fedden and Miss Gordon were getting on. I’ve just got back.”</p><p>She said: “Oh, Colonel Fedden’s through the worst of it. We were a
little worried this afternoon; the shock, you know. He’s not a young
man, is he? And it does tell, for all that he keeps himself so fit. But
I think that’s all over. He’s having a lovely sleep now. I really don’t
think you need worry about him at all, Commander.”</p><p>“That’s fine,” I said. “What about Miss Gordon?”</p><p>There was a momentary pause, and then she said: “Oh, well, I think she’s
going on as well as could be expected, you know.” She repeated: “Oh,
yes, as well as could be expected. Of course, you can’t expect her to be
quite the same as Colonel Fedden, can you?”</p><p>I said: “Do you mean she’s ill?”</p><p>“Oh no. Just a little temperature, you know; nothing to worry about.
She’s rather restless—” She broke off. “Oh, there is Dr Dixon, just
coming out of her room now. Would you like to have a word with him?”</p><p>I said: “I should.”</p><p>Dixon came to the telephone. He asked where I was speaking from, and
then:</p><p>“I think you’d better come down here,” he said. “Yes; I rather want to
see you. Yes; it’s about the girl. I think it might be a good thing to
have another opinion—things move so quickly in these cases, you know.
Anyway, we’ll have a talk about it when you come down.”</p><p>I nodded slowly. “I’ll be with you in ten minutes,” I replied, and rang
him off.</p><p>The sun was just rising as I went through to the stable yard; it came up
behind a bank of watery clouds; the gale was dying with the dawn. I
opened the stable gates and got the Bentley out, and ran down to the
nursing home. I found Dixon in the surgery, and he got up to meet me as
I came in.</p><p>I went straight to the point. “This girl,” I said. “I take it that you
mean there’s something wrong.”</p><p>He met my eyes. “I hope not,” he replied. “The position is this. She was
all right till nine o’clock last night. Then the temperature began, and
the pulse went up in sympathy—you understand.”</p><p>I nodded. “What’s the temperature now?”</p><p>“A hundred and three point five.”</p><p>“And the pulse?”</p><p>“About a hundred and forty.”</p><p>I said: “And what is it you think she’s got?”</p><p>He hesitated. “Provisionally, I am treating for septicæmia. That
is—what I should be apprehensive of.”</p><p>There was a little silence in the room. “Is there anything else that it
could be?” I asked.</p><p>He said something a little diffidently about coincidences: I gathered
that he was thinking of measles or something of that sort. Frankly, he
did not think that that was very probable. And then he said that if it
was septicæmia he would prefer to have some help. “Things change, you
know—the treatments,” he said, a little apologetically. “It’s some time
since I had a case like this. Now, Holderness over at Plymouth, I know
he had three at least last year—he was dining with me the other night.
I think it might be as well to have him over.”</p><p>I nodded. “By all means. Get on to him at once.”</p><p>He went out of the room to get the matron to put through the call for
him, and when he came back I asked him: “Who’s the authority on this
time at the present time?”</p><p>He glanced at me. “You mean in this part of the world?”</p><p>“In England. Harley Street.”</p><p>He considered for a moment, and absently turned a pile of periodicals
upon his desk. “I don’t think Harley Street,” he said at last. “I think
you’d have to go to Liverpool, perhaps. Sir Donald McKenzie—he’s the
chap that writes so much about it, and he certainly has done wonderful
work on it up there.”</p><p>I nodded. “We’d better get him down,” I said. “At once.” I paused. “Get
a call through to him, and tell him to fly down if he can. If not, to
telegraph what time he can reach Exeter—I’ll have the car to meet him
there.” I turned and stared him grimly in the eyes. “You understand?
He’s to drop everything, and come at once. He is to start within an hour
from now.”</p><p>“Well, of course,” said Dixon, “if you do that you’ll get the very best
advice obtainable.” He hesitated for a moment. “And, of course, you’ll
have to pay for it.”</p><p>I asked: “How much?”</p><p>Dixon hesitated. “I really couldn’t say. It is conceivable that if I ask
him to drop everything as you suggest and fly down here, he might charge
as much as two hundred guineas. I should not say it would be more.”</p><p>I nodded slowly, and the room seemed to nod with me: I steadied myself
by the table, for I was very tired. “Offer five hundred on the
telephone,” I said wearily. “Get him to come at any price he wants.”</p><p>I sat down on a chair; Dixon stood eyeing me. And then he said: “I’m
very sorry, Stevenson. You can depend upon us to do everything that can
be done, regardless of expense.”</p><p>I raised my heavy head. “You can have carte blanche up to ten thousand
pounds,” I said. “I’ll give you that in writing, if you like. And after
that as much more as you want.”</p><p>He left me then to telephone, and I sat on there in the surgery for what
seemed many hours, until he came again. “McKenzie arrives at Exeter at
2.15,” he said. “That is the best that I could do. And Holderness is on
his way here now.”</p><p>I got on to my feet. “Good man,” I said. And then I said, a little
timidly: “Do you think I could look in and see her for a bit? Or
wouldn’t that be wise?”</p><p>“I think it would be excellent,” he said. “She was asking for you all
day yesterday. But you don’t want to go in there like that.”</p><p>“Like what?” I asked stupidly.</p><p>He laughed and swung a mirrored door till I could see myself. I was
still in sea clothes, serge trousers and blue jersey, and an oilskin
over all. I had a growth of stubble straggling across my face, and the
features that looked back at me were lined and worn. Dixon laughed. “Get
along back and have a bath and shave, and come down when you’ve had some
breakfast,” he said. “I’ll expect you here at about eight o’clock.”</p><p>Stenning had gone to bed, and was asleep when I got back. I left him
there and went and had a bath, and shaved, and dressed carefully and
neatly that disastrous day. When I had finished, I looked in the glass.
Everything was neat and orderly except my face, which was all grey, the
face of an old man. I went downstairs to my ruined dining–room and
poured a whisky from the decanter which was still upon the table, and
with that inside me I felt more myself.</p><p>Rogers brought me breakfast in the library, but I didn’t fancy it. By
eight o’clock I was down at the nursing home, and waiting in the surgery
till Dixon came.</p><p>I heard him coming down the passage from her room, talking incisively to
the matron, and I saw his face before he knew that I was there. He
brightened when he saw me. “That’s better,” he remarked. He said that
Holderness had been there and had seen the girl, and had gone away to
have some breakfast. I gathered that he had not been of much help, and
that the thing would have to run its course without much check, pending
the arrival of the specialist.</p><p>“She’s been asking after you again,” said Dixon. “I think it might be a
good thing if you went and sat with her a bit.” He hesitated. “You’ll
realise, of course, that she has a high temperature,” he said. “You
won’t excite her—she must be kept quite quiet. You may find her
wandering a little, too. Still, I think perhaps it might be a good thing
if you went and sat there for a bit.”</p><p>In the pale room the blinds were still half drawn; a nurse was moving
quietly about at the far end. She greeted me with a smile and moved a
chair for me beside the bed, and I sat down to throw my weight into the
fight. “Don’t worry if she doesn’t know you just at first,” the nurse
said quietly behind me. “She will later. She’s been asking for you all
the time.”</p><p>I sat and stared at Mollie in the bed, flushed and uncomfortable, and
most unlike the girl that I had known. I tried to think of something I
could say to her as she lay turning restlessly, and staring through the
place where I was sitting by her side. And finding nothing I could say,
I took one of her hands in mine and sat there stroking it, and listening
to the words that dropped from time to time from the hot lips.</p><p>And sitting there, I drifted back into another world. The odd phrases
and the half sentences were all about her former life, the life that she
had lived up in the north. Once came a stanza of a vaudeville song that
I remembered seeing early in the war, and there was much about the
stage, about soubrettes and leads. There was something of dancing, and
of boys. All this came out in little bits and snatches between long,
silent intervals of restlessness. Once the nurse came up and looked at
her most critically, and felt the pulse. And then she turned to me and
said: “She’s ever so much quieter since you came.” And that amazed me.</p><p>And presently, when I had been there for perhaps an hour, she suddenly
lay quiet and stared at me with dull eyes, but awake. And then she said,
quite quietly:</p><p>“Is that the Commander?”</p><p>“That’s right,” I said, “I’ve come to sit with you for a bit.” And I
stroked the hand that I was holding.</p><p>She said: “It’s ever so nice of you to come.” And then in explanation
she added: “I’ve been such a long way.”</p><p>“I know,” I said. “But now you’re home again.”</p><p>They turned me out soon after that, telling her that I should come back
presently, and I was left to pace the surgery downstairs. Stenning
turned up and I told him briefly what was on; he was as powerless as I
had been to help. All he could do was to take the burden of negotiations
with the police from me, and he left me to go down to Norman to discuss
what else had to be done.</p><p>I went out at once into the town. At the entrance to the nursing home a
young man stopped me, and informed me, a little hesitantly, that he
represented the <span class="emphasis"><em>Morning Herald</em></span>. I told him that I owned thirty per
cent of the shares in that publication, that he’d be sacked before the
week was out, and he could burn in hell for all I cared. That settled
him, but there were others that I could not sack so easily. One took a
photograph of me as I went back into the home.</p><p>I did not see her again before lunch. Dixon came down and said that I
had done a bit of good, and that she was quieter than she had been all
the night. I had sent Adams with the car to Exeter to meet McKenzie, and
I walked up to my house and snatched a little food, and walked down to
the nursing home again, blasting and cursing the reporters who accosted
me as I was walking down the street. The town seemed full of them that
day, and I walked through them, cursing as I went.</p><p>McKenzie proved to be a little sandy–haired man with pince–nez, by no
means the great figure I had pictured him. Dixon and Holderness were
pleased with him, however, and they took him into consultation in the
surgery, and I left with a dozen old copies of the <span class="emphasis"><em>Tatler</em></span> and <span class="emphasis"><em>Punch</em></span>
that somebody had given me to read. I heard them leave the surgery and
go along the passage to her room, and then there was a good deal of
movement of the nurses in the home, and passing in and out. And
presently, at rather after four o’clock, I heard them coming down the
passage. I heard Dixon say: “You might have a word with him now,
perhaps. He’s in the other room.” I got up on my feet as they came in to
me.</p><p>McKenzie started to tell me how ably his colleague, Dr Dixon, had been
managing the case, as he was bound to do in etiquette. I cut him short
when he was half–way through his piece. “You found a sick girl, I’m
afraid,” I said.</p><p>The little man shot a quick glance at me. “I’ll not deny it. I’ll not
deny it at all, I found a very sick girl. Not that she won’t pull
through, mind you. Don’t think it, but she’ll want watching tonight, the
while she’s in the worst of it, and she’ll do fine. I was just tellin’
the doctor here, I’ll bide with you tonight.”</p><p>I cleared my throat. “That would be very kind of you. I was hoping that
perhaps you’d stay the night.”</p><p>He went into the details of the treatment in his dry Scots
way—something to do with scarlet fever anti–toxin, which I have
forgotten now. We stood there talking for a quarter of an hour, until he
said:</p><p>“Well, now. Ye’ll go and sit with her a bit?” He changed to a command.
“Ye’ll go away and have a bit of tea, and ye’ll come back at five
o’clock and sit with her a while. She likes to have you there, the
doctor was telling me. And, man, it’s what she wants she’s got to have
this night.”</p><p>He eyed me narrowly, this little sandy man. “The doctor was telling me
she thinks the world and all of you. Don’t think because I’ve come from
Liverpool that I’m the one that’s going to get her through the night.
It’s you. Now, are you up to it?” He shot the question at me as a
challenge, peering at me through his pince–nez.</p><p>I met his eyes. “Three nights ago I asked her if she would become my
wife,” I said. “I’ll do all I can.”</p><p>He turned away. “Weel, ye can’t do more than that.” He turned again.
“Just stamina, that’s a’ she wants. Ye can’t build up physique by
dancing underground all afternoon and half the night, and lying abed all
morn. And ye canna pump it in with an hypodermic squirt. Good food and
exercise, and plenty sleep. That’s all she’s wanting. Ye’d better give
it her when this thing’s over.”</p><p>“Just stamina,” he said. “Losh, if you pump that into her I’ll throw me
anti–toxins down the sink!” And laughed at his own joke.</p><p>I made arrangements on the telephone for a room for him at my house, but
it was evident he didn’t contemplate much sleep that night. And then,
obediently, I went and had my tea, and at five o’clock I went into her
room to battle for her life.</p><p>She was awake and smiled to see me come, and I bent down and kissed her
on the lips, regardless of the nurse. It seemed to me that she was less
restless than she had been before, but every bit as hot; she was
noticeably weaker than she had been in the morning. I sat down beside
her bed and took her hand in mine, and I began to talk to her about the
first things that came into my head.</p><p>If I were to try and put down all I said to her that night I should fill
many volumes of this ledger, for I talked for hours. She said very
little in reply; I sat there stroking her hand and arm, and every now
and then she squeezed my hand a little, and smiled up at me. I started
off with what we’d do as soon as she was fit to leave the nursing home.
I told her that I’d get her moved back into her own room and bathroom in
my house as soon as possible, and for that she smiled, and murmured:
“I’d love to be there.” And I told her how she could sit out in the sun
in the garden all day till her shoulder healed, and read magazines and
look out over the flowers at the harbour and the sea. And I told her
that I’d get her a kitten to keep her company while I was away at the
office in the mornings.</p><p>And then, without heeding that the nurse was there, I told her again
that I loved her, and she lay there smiling at me with her eyes. I told
her that I wanted her to marry me as soon as she felt she could, and if
she felt she couldn’t just at first we’d go away together as she wanted,
and we’d get married when she liked. I told her that we’d go away and
have a real holiday together, a holiday that would go on for as long as
we wanted to. And that would be the first real holiday that I had taken
since the war.</p><p>I told her that we’d start off at Torquay, and she smiled up at me, and
whispered: “Lovely.” I said I’d have the <span class="emphasis"><em>Runagate</em></span> round there, and
we’d live in a fine hotel just up above the harbour, in a double room,
and we’d spend every day sailing and bathing together, and motoring upon
the moors. And she could teach me to dance really properly at night, so
that she could dance with me with pleasure all our lives. She said:
“You’ll learn ever so quick.”</p><p>I told her that we’d stay there for as long as ever she liked, but that
once or twice we’d just run up to town to buy her clothes. And I told
her that she could have her frocks designed for her, but that I wanted
one that would be like the silver and blue one she had worn in the
evenings at my house; she must have one like that. And I said that Joan
would help her and show her where to buy the things, and where to go for
everything she wanted. And then we’d come back to Torquay and she could
learn to drive a car, and I’d get her a little light saloon that she
could drive herself.</p><p>And then I told her, as the autumn came, we’d slip across to the New
World. Because once, so many years ago, I met an old merchant
skipper—not one of my men—who told me that of all the places that he
had seen all through the world there was one that was so supremely
beautiful that it stood out like a mountain over all the lovely sights
that he had ever seen.</p><p>That was the harbour at Halifax in the fall of the year. He pictured it
to me as a wide inlet between wooded hills, and full of wooded islands
on the water’s face. And all these woods were maple woods, so that in
the autumn they turned bright scarlet. With the calm water, the red
woods, and the long, cloudless, pale blue autumn days it made a picture
that that old man had carried with him all his life; he had longed to
return to it again before he died. And it had bitten deep into me, too,
so that I told her we would go and see it as the autumn drew on.</p><p>And then we’d go on to New York and see the greatest city of the
century, so great that the foreigner is faintly homesick when he leaves.
I told her that we’d stay there, possibly, till Christmas time, learning
about America, and seeing how they lived. I told her, if she liked, we’d
go across to Hollywood and see how films were made.</p><p>And then I told her that we’d come back home and go to Switzerland.
Because by that time her arm would be quite strong again and she could
learn to ski, and I told her about the snow and ski–ing and the skating,
and the sitting in the blazing sun to eat your lunch on the veranda of
the hotel above the snow. I told her about the joy of running on good
snow in the sunshine, sweeping in stemming christies down the slopes to
the inevitable drink of ice–cold milk in the châlet at the bottom. I
told her about the hotels and the snow mountains, rose coloured in the
sunset, and I told her about the people that she’d meet, and the dancing
in the evenings, where nobody would be so good as her.</p><p>They came in then to do something to her, Dixon and McKenzie, and they
sent me from the bed. After a quarter of an hour they went away, and I
came back to her and took up my tale again where I had left it off. And
I told her that in the spring we’d come back home and live at Dartmouth,
with the sea and with my ships all summer, because that is home, and one
cannot be travelling all the year through. And I told her that I’d teach
her how to sail, and that I’d get a little sailing dinghy rigged for her
so that she could take her friends out up the river bathing, because
it’s warmer up there. And all her friends would come and stay with us
from time to time, girls on their one week’s holiday from the grey
cities of the north. And she whispered: “I’d have Edna first, if I may.”</p><p>And then I told her that we would stay at home for all the summer
months, close to the sea, and I would show her the fun of cruising in
the English Channel and the West of Ireland. And perhaps, if she wanted
to, we’d have one month of that away, and take the car to France, and
run down to the south through Chartres and Arles and Avignon, until we
reached the sea, to live the Lido life a little at some bathing place.
And then back home again, to stay a week in Paris at a quiet place I
know that overlooks the Bois, and she could get some shopping done. Then
we’d go home, and be at home for August when her friends had holidays.</p><p>And in September we might go to Scotland for a little shooting, with
some friends of mine.</p><p>Evening drew on, and she lay smiling at me there, seeming to drift into
a doze, and then rousing again to squeeze my hand. McKenzie came in from
time to time to see how she was getting on; the temperature showed no
sign of going down. “Ye’ll keep her interest,” he ordered once in a soft
tone. “Just keep her interest, and give me drugs a chance….”</p><p>I went on talking to her, and I told her that we’d finish up our
two–year honeymoon by going round the world. Because I never had seen
India, and very little of the East at all, and I was longing to go there
with her. I told her that we’d go there with no very settled plan, but
that I wanted to go up into Kashmir to see a man who was at school with
me, and that I wanted to work down into Ceylon to see the pilgrimage to
Adams Peak among the flowers. And then, I said, we’d go on over to Malay
and on from Singapore to the South Seas. And there we’d charter a
schooner to get off the beaten track, and we’d go cruising through the
islands towards Honolulu at the end. Then we would cross to San
Francisco and up into Canadian summer in the Rockies, two years hence,
and so to Montreal, where I have many friends. And so we’d come back
home, after our honeymoon, to settle down to work again, to stay till we
were tired and longed to see the world again beyond the sea.</p><p class="center">*        *        *        *        *</p><p>She lay there quiet, in a sort of dream. And about nine o’clock I bent
towards her lips, and I heard her say: “I wish the others could have
seen us, dear, just once. None of them ever had a gentleman friend like
I’ve had.”</p><p>I sat with her till far into the night. Then they made me come away, and
Dixon took me home.</p></section><footer/></body></html>
