<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:pls="http://www.w3.org/2005/01/pronunciation-lexicon" xmlns:ssml="http://www.w3.org/2001/10/synthesis" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><head><title>Chapter 14</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook-epub.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="epubbooks.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Stylesheets Vsnapshot_9885"/><link rel="prev" href="19.xhtml" title="Chapter 13"/><link rel="next" href="21.xhtml" title="Chapter 15"/></head><body><header/><section class="chapter" title="Chapter 14" epub:type="chapter" id="id70116623076080"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h1 class="title">Chapter 14</h1></div></div></div><p>I do not think I need put down the events of the succeeding week in any
detail. A reliable account of the two inquests came out in <span class="emphasis"><em>The Times</em></span>,
and is available if I should want to look it up—a most improbable
contingency. The other newspapers were only fit to burn.</p><p>They held the first at Dartmouth upon the two Gordons and the
Superintendent. Norman gave evidence in a restricted sort of way. I
think that he had had a conversation with the coroner before the case
came on, for nothing came out that was of any consequence. They called
me next and I swore by Almighty God that the evidence which I should
give to that inquest should be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing
but the truth; an oath which I took with every intention of committing
perjury. But all the evidence they wanted from me was quite formal; I
told them something of Mollie and her brother, and their lives. Only one
question I remember clearly, when the coroner said delicately: “Are we
to understand that these two were related to you in any way, Commander
Stevenson?”</p><p>I raised my heavy head. “I had asked Miss Gordon if she would do me the
honour to become my wife,” I said. “I don’t know if you call that a
relationship or not.”</p><p>That passed with a little buzz of interest in the court, and next
morning I saw a placard close outside my own lodge gates:</p><table style="border: 0; " class="simplelist" epub:type="list"><tr><td>Q–BOAT CAPTAIN’S TRAGIC LOVE FOR</td></tr><tr><td>MYSTERY DANCING GIRL</td></tr></table><p>Stenning and Joan had wanted to come and stay with me to see it through,
but I had told them, brutally perhaps, that I would rather be alone. And
so they stayed down in the town, and I went back to build up my old
life, working upon the drawings of the little cruiser I am building now,
and working all day in my office at the yard.</p><p>The verdict in the first inquest was one of ‘Wilful murder against some
person or persons unknown’. It could not be fixed upon the people
drowned in the wreck of the bawley, as neither Stenning nor I, nor
anyone, could give more than presumptive evidence that the bawley we had
come upon not far from the Eddystone had anything to do with the affair.
So the thing rested till the inquest on the bodies from the wreck was
held, over at Pentressan, some days afterwards.</p><p>And that produced little but identification. Three bodies were washed up
within five miles of the coast, and it seems reasonable to suppose that
that is all there were. The cause of death in every case was drowning.</p><p>The first was a young man called Peter Marston. He was twenty–three
years of age, and had left Cambridge about ten months before. His father
came down to identify the body, a grey–haired, venerable old man, from
Colchester. He was much cut up. They were people of some means, and the
boy since leaving Cambridge, had followed no occupation. He was
interested in the fishing industry. The bawley was his property, and he
used to cruise in it a great deal, but his father knew little of the
companions that he had upon these trips. The father had never before
seen any of the other bodies.</p><p>The second body was that of a man of between thirty–five and forty years
of age, dark haired, wearing a dark suit and boots of continental
manufacture. There was no name upon the clothes, but in the pocket there
was a love letter from a woman, addressed to Alexander Kura, Poste
Restante, Rotterdam. This letter was in a mixture of Russian and German,
and bore no address. That was all, except that a small automatic pistol
was found in the hip pocket.</p><p>The third was a man of about thirty, pale and thin. This man was known
to the police, who identified him as an alien called Aukitch, who had
been deported from this country for a case of robbery with violence. He
was believed to be a Russian Jew.</p><p>This inquest was quite short, the verdict being ‘Death from
Misadventure’, as I had supposed.</p><p>So those inquests passed, a little inconclusively perhaps, but no one
had a shadow of a doubt that justice had been done. By that time I had
lost interest in a great degree in the inner meaning of the business. I
only wanted to be left alone, to get back to my rut and to forget the
last six weeks. But I went down one day to the police station when
Norman was there, and had a little talk with him about the business.</p><p>They had been to Trepwll, and had removed what they had found. They
found a barn half full of munitions—thirty–two light machine guns, a
number of cheap automatic pistols, a few bombs, and a great amount of
ammunition. And they found a farmer who protested that he knew nothing
of the contents of his barn, and they were forced to the conclusion that
he spoke the truth. He had leased his barn to a man called Palmer for
the warehousing of goods, and he knew nothing of the nature of the goods
inside the packing cases. He knew that some of them were carpet
sweepers, because he had seen the labels.</p><p>The police had removed what they had found, and had contrived to hide
the matter from the Press.</p><p>And there the matter, Norman said, must rest till after the election,
now only a fortnight off. There was no evidence at all of any
destination of the arms; they had been brought to the barn and stored,
and no one from the district had been near the place. At the Yard they
suspected that the arms had come from Russia, and they were certain that
the introducers of the arms were dead, drowned in the bawley. He agreed
that there must be some local agent in the Glanferis district who had
some knowledge of the business, but so far they had found no trace of
him. And, acting on instructions from above, they did not intend to
prosecute their search for him just at the moment.</p><p>“Frankly,” he said, “I think this is the end of the affair.”</p><p>I thought about it for a minute. “It may be,” I said at last, “but I
don’t see how you come to that conclusion all the same. You’ve not
discovered anything about the directing intelligence behind it all.”</p><p>He smiled a little. “That depends on how you look at it,” he said. “Do
you doubt that the directing intelligence was Russian in its origin?”</p><p>I shook my head. “No.”</p><p>“Well then,” he replied, “there isn’t any question of the origin,
essentially. What you mean is that we haven’t found the intermediate
agents. I hope that we shall do so in due course. But the important
thing is the discovery. For the time we have stopped the importation of
the arms, simply because their secrecy has broken down. That gives us
breathing space.”</p><p>“Till after the election,” I put in, a little cynically.</p><p>He shuffled with the papers on his desk. “I have no concern with that
aspect of the matter, as you know.”</p><p>I went away, and tried to concentrate upon my work for the next few
days. Stenning and Joan had gone back to their place in town, tired, I
suppose, of the treatment I had given them. And I went on living in my
house alone, working all day and drinking rather heavily all night,
dining alone in a black tie, and sitting after dinner in the library
till I could feel that I could face my bed.</p><p>And after two or three days I came to the conclusion that I was not
satisfied. The police might give this up, but I went over to Plymouth
one fine afternoon, driving the Bentley faster than I might have done if
I had had a little less to drink at lunch. I went to the accountant who
handles my audit, and I said to him:</p><p>“See here. Isn’t there some intelligence bureau that you people use? I
mean, if you want to find out about anyone? For finding out their credit
in hire–purchase matters, and that sort of thing?”</p><p>He nodded. “Certainly. I can get you a confidential report on anyone, if
you like. It’ll cost you one–and–sixpence in the ordinary way.”</p><p>It seemed cheap to me. “That boy called Marston who was drowned the
other day,” I said, and I gave his address in Colchester. “I want to
know about his women friends.”</p><p>He wrinkled his brows. “That’s a little out of the ordinary line,” he
objected. “The agency will handle it all right, but it may cost you a
bit more. You want their names, social position and that sort of thing?”</p><p>I nodded. “That’s exactly it. I want a list of all the women he knew
well, who would have gone about with him, alone. Their addresses, and
what you can find out about each of them.”</p><p>He mused a little. “It’ll probably be one–and–sixpence each,” he said.
“Generally takes about two days. I’ll telephone you when it comes to
hand.”</p><p>And three days later I had the report. There were only two of them,
apparently: a waitress in a Cambridge restaurant, and his cousin, Adela
Jennings, lately down from Girton. It did not seem to me that the
waitress was the one I wanted, and so I concentrated upon Adela.</p><p>She lived at Esher, in her parents’ house. I thought about it for a day,
wondering if I should meet all Scotland Yard upon the doorstep of that
house, and then I took the car and went to London.</p><p>I stayed at my club. Nobody I knew was there, and I was disinclined to
go and look for anyone. And so I dined very well, alone, and sat alone
in the top smoking–room with my cigar and with a magazine all evening,
save once, when a waiter brought me whisky and I stopped him by my
chair, and he told me about the Test matches, and we talked for a little
time. Then he went away, and I sat on with the decanter by the fire,
alone. At about three o’clock I went to bed.</p><p>Next morning I drove down to the house at Esher in the Bentley. It was a
fair–sized place that stood in its own grounds; I drove up to the front
door in my car, and rang the bell, and asked to see Miss Adela. They
showed me into a morning–room and presently she came to me, an
earnest–looking girl in a dark dress with a touch of black in it.</p><p>And when I saw her I knew that I had not gone wrong.</p><p>I rose to meet her as she came. “Good afternoon, Miss Jennings,” I said
grimly. “I’ve come up from Dartmouth to meet you. I want answers to one
or two questions, about your cousin and yourself.”</p><p>She stared at me, flaming, indignant at my tone. I was standing by the
window in bright light, and suddenly she faltered, and the colour died
out of her face. And then she whispered: “Oh….”</p><p>I stood there eying her. “You seem to know my face.”</p><p>She pulled herself together, and said quietly: “I don’t. Who are you,
and what are you doing here?”</p><p>I smiled, a little cruelly perhaps. “I’m a sojourner,” I said, “as all
my fathers were.”</p><p>There was a long, restless pause after that. At last she said: “Have you
come from the police?”</p><p>I stared at her in the eyes. “I’ve come to get answers to my questions,”
I said harshly. “True answers, and none of your damn trickery. If you
want to know, I’ve come to inquire into a murder.”</p><p>She pulled herself together. “I don’t know what you mean.”</p><p>I smiled. “Then I’ll explain. You’ve caused the death of five men and a
girl, you and your precious friends. I know that much. If you go playing
with me any more I shall disclose the whole affair, your part in it as
well. You know what that means. Prison for you, and for a damn long
spell.”</p><p>She sank down on a chair beside the table. “We had considered this,” she
said, and as she spoke the tears fell slowly from her eyes. “We knew
that if the thing went wrong there would be trouble. It seemed worth it,
then. And it has gone most desperately wrong….”</p><p>I laughed. “Then I hope it still seems worth it,” I remarked. I turned
serious. “You’d better answer my questions. If you don’t, I shall tell
all I know. I shall disclose your cousin Peter as the murderous
scoundrel that he really was. I shall disclose your part in it.” She had
nothing apparently to say to that. “If you tell the truth I’ll go away
and leave things as they are, maybe, and you can square your conscience
in whatever way you choose to kid yourself.”</p><p>I paused. “I’m doing this because I think you saved my life, that night
upon the beach. But for that fact I’d blast you up and down the country,
in and out of gaol, until I had you dead. I’ll give you this one
chance.”</p><p>She laid her head down on her arms. “You don’t understand,” she sobbed.
“You don’t understand at all.”</p><p>“I’m dealing with a pack of murderers,” I said. “I understand that part
of it all right.”</p><p>“You don’t understand,” she sobbed again. And then she said: “It was all
for the election.”</p><p>I have had many experiences in the life that I have lived, and sometimes
I have been afraid. But I do not think that I have ever before
experienced the feeling of sheer horror that came over me when she said
that. She had said something utterly incredible. In that one swift
moment there came to me all the manœuvrings of the hustlings and the
polling booths, the sordid trickery that forms a background to political
affairs. I cannot describe in words the feelings that came over me as I
stood there and listened to her sobbing at the table, the tense horror
of this first hint that all that had been sacrificed and lost was staked
upon some move in party politics.</p><p>I strode across and knocked her head up from the table. “Just listen
here, young woman,” I said angrily. “Now tell me what you mean.”</p><p>She sobbed: “It’s true, and now you’ve got it, and I wish that I was
dead.”</p><p>I said: “What’s this about the election? By God, you’d better speak the
truth!”</p><p>I held her head up from the table, and I held her tear–streaked eyes
with mine. “The guns had to be hidden at Trepwll before the election.
And then they were going to be discovered just before the polling day.
It was the only way to save the country from the Socialists.”</p><p>I let her head drop back upon the table, and she lay there sobbing
unrestrainedly. I walked over to the window and stood there for a little
time, staring out into the sunlit garden and the rhododendrons. Little
by little in my mind the monstrous story fell into its place. Long ago
the Zinovieff letter lost an election to the Labour Party; the
incredible fact appeared to be that this affair had been conceived as
such another. Guns had been brought into the country by some politician
of the opposing group, and planted in a disaffected area. I could well
see that if these arms had been discovered a few days before the poll
and evidence supplied that they had come from Russia, the country would
swing solid to Conservative.</p><p>One thing was evident; this girl had got to tell me all she knew. I
crossed the room to her, and laid my hand upon her shoulder. “Come
along,” I said, perhaps a little more gently than I had done up till
then. “This thing has gone awry. You tell me this thing is just a fake,
a movement in some game of party politics. Six people have been killed
in playing it, and now it’s got to stop. More may be killed before it
runs its course. Sit up, and tell me how it came about.”</p><p>And with a little encouragement she dried her eyes, and told me
everything. She had hardly said two sentences before I stopped her with
a question.</p><p>“Who is the directing influence behind this thing? Who organised it, and
paid for it?”</p><p>She hesitated.</p><p>“Come on, now,” I said harshly. “Out with it. If not, I put it with the
police.”</p><p>The tears fell from her eyes again. “It was Professor Ormsby,” she
replied.</p><p>I pulled an envelope and pencil from my pocket to make notes. “Christian
names, and address?”</p><p>“Charles Hemming Ormsby. He’s a Professor of Political Economy. A Fellow
of Nicholas—Cambridge.”</p><p>I thought about this for a minute. “Who invented the name for the carpet
sweepers—the Greek scholar? Was that him?”</p><p>She nodded tearfully. And then, little by little, out it came, until at
last I had the whole affair.</p><p>I had been shocked by the revelation of the nature of the gun running. I
do not know that I was less shocked at the high ideals that lay behind
it all, and at the spirit in which it had been carried out. For the root
of it lay in a real patriotism and a love of England, distorted but
sincere. And here I may say at once that I found no villainy about the
thing. Merely an overwhelming vanity, that could not brook another view
of what was beneficial for this country that we live in now.</p><p>So far as I could understand, Professor Ormsby, the boy Marston, and
this girl, his cousin, were the chief participants in the affair. It had
no connexion with official Conservatism at all; it could have none, of
course. It was a secret enterprise, conceived by Ormsby and carried out
by young Marston in his bawley, whose object was to place a Conservative
Government in power in England for the next five years. The whole affair
had been most cleverly conceived. The guns had come, in fact, from
Russian sources, and Russians had co–operated in the smuggling
wholeheartedly. I did not hear the details of that part of it—all that
had been manœuvred by Professor Ormsby, but the essence of it was that
Communism had been invoked in this affair to bring about its own defeat.</p><p>In Marston Professor Ormsby had found a resolute young man, secretive
and well suited to carry out the detail of his part. The girl had been
introduced by Marston at a later date to help him in some business
connected with the bawley; I could well imagine that it was a job that
called for company of some description. I found strong evidence to lead
me to believe that the man they knew as Palmer was Professor Ormsby
himself; I do not think that there was anybody else in the affair at
all.</p><p>If ever people played about with fire it was that little crowd.</p><p>Every trip they made they carried Russians to and from the country;
almost immediately their smuggling became a means of introducing agents
into England who could not get through the immigration barriers. They
had been powerless to prevent this traffic, and contented themselves
with the knowledge that it would not last for long. From the first their
lives were carried in their hands. They served their country secretly,
as criminals, and the reward that they were earning was a heavy burden
to be carried to their graves. They were out to fool the country for the
country’s benefit, and no country takes that sort of trick too well.</p><p>The girl knew nothing of events for two or three days prior to the end,
but from her knowledge she could reconstruct them well. It was
impossible that Marston should have taken part in the murders at my
house; he would have been down with the bawley at the entrance to the
harbour mouth. I am inclined to doubt, in fact, if he had ever known
that violence had been done; there was no occasion for the gunmen to
have told him, and every reason why it should be kept from him if they
desired to make a getaway. He was the only sailor among them, it is to
be presumed.</p><p>At last it was all done. I had been there two hours, and for the last
hour she had been talking collectedly, giving her evidence in a
straightforward way. I had three envelopes of notes; I glanced them over
and got to my feet. “That’s all?” I inquired. “If there is anything else
whatsoever you’d better tell me now.”</p><p>She said that there was nothing more to tell. She asked, a little
nervously, what I was going to do.</p><p>I stared at her. “God knows.” And then I laughed quietly: “Getting a
little bit afraid of your own skin, now, I suppose. Well, you needn’t.
If what you say is true, you’re out of it. No worse can happen to you
than publicity.”</p><p>She faltered. “Will it get into the newspapers?”</p><p>“God knows,” I said again. Her question sickened me; for the moment I
had been back again in Dartmouth with a braver girl than this. I turned
upon her viciously. “There were three of you,” I said. “Between you you
murdered two men and a harmless girl. That’s what you’ve done, and
you’ll remember it.”</p><p>There was a little pause. “One of you three is dead, and I shall see the
other soon. And you’ll be left alone to live your time out through the
years, with all your memories.” I took my hat from the table. “I must
wish you joy of it.”</p><p>I drove back up to town and garaged the car, and went back to my club to
write. I settled down there in the reading–room, and because I was tired
and feeling not so well the stream of tumblers came and went beside my
elbow, for the bell was at my side. I wrote on steadily, page after
page, and never paused till it was time to drain my glass and go and
change for dinner, and then the writing was but half done. And I
remember, as I crossed the landing to the stairs, I passed behind two
men and heard one say:</p><p>“Can nothing be done about that fellow in the reading–room? The boy
tells me he’s had seven whiskies in the last two hours, and last night
just the same. One doesn’t expect to see that sort of soaking in a club
like this.”</p><p>I smiled a little and passed on. This was the England Ormsby had set out
to fool. The task had not proved very difficult, perhaps.</p><p>I dressed with infinite exactitude, and went downstairs and dined alone.
It seemed but a moment till I was sitting writing again, and yet I must
have lingered over my dinner, for it was nine o’clock when I sat down
again in the reading–room. I wrote on steadily into the night, and the
little pile of manuscript grew steadily at my elbow, and from time to
time the boy came to me again, and went.</p><p>At last it was finished. It was very still and silent in the
reading–room, still with the silence of an empty London club at night,
muffled in repose. I settled down to read my story through, and
presently the swing doors parted and closed, and the night porter came
to me.</p><p>“Will you be wanting anything further tonight, sir?”</p><p>I stared at him absently. “What’s the time?”</p><p>“Five and twenty past one, sir.”</p><p>I shook my head. “You might bring me a few biscuits and a double whisky.
I shall be going up in a minute.” And I settled down in the deserted
room again.</p><p>At last I was finished. I addressed three envelopes: one to Jenkinson
and one to Norman, and the third and bulkiest to the editor of the
<span class="emphasis"><em>Morning Herald</em></span>, a paper in which I had a holding at that time. I put
all these in one large envelope and sealed them up, and addressed it to
Jenkinson: “To be opened in the event of my death.” Then I went to bed.</p><p>I suppose I slept that night, but it escapes my memory. I know I heard
the clocks chime all the hours of the night, and as soon as it was dawn
I pulled my curtains and lay back and tried to read a volume of essays
that I had picked up downstairs. And so the night passed, till at last I
heard the sound of movement, and I could get up and have my bath.</p><p>I put in a trunk call to Cambridge at about nine o’clock and talked for
a few moments to the porter at Nicholas. Then I got through to Professor
Ormsby, and heard a voice say: “Who is that?”</p><p>I smiled a little. “This is Commander Stevenson,” I said, “speaking from
London. I must introduce myself on the recommendation of a Miss Adela
Jennings, of Esher. I had a most interesting talk with Miss Jennings
yesterday over the matter of some carpet sweepers that I believe you are
interested in, too. I was wondering if I might come down today—say this
afternoon—and have a talk with you about them?”</p><p>He had guts, that fellow; there was only the slightest pause.
“Certainly,” he said; “I should be very pleased to see you. Shall we say
half–past two, in my rooms here?”</p><p>“That’s all right for me.”</p><p>“Very well, Commander Stevenson,” he replied; “I shall expect you then.”
And he rang off.</p><p>I had nothing to prepare. At about ten o’clock I left the Club and went
and got the Bentley and drove down to Cambridge. It was a lovely day,
high summer; in the country it was warm and fresh. I drove with a more
contented mind than I had had for many days; looking back upon it now I
think that I enjoyed that drive. I was going to a clean–cut issue, going
unarmed to meet a man who might be dangerous, with no other weapon but
my wits. I was inviolable, for I had nothing left to lose.</p><p>I lunched well in Cambridge and went on to Nicholas at the appointed
time. The porter took me across the court to a staircase in the southern
corner, up some dark stone stairs, and tapped at the door for me. A
voice called to me to come in, and I went forward into the room.</p><p>He was alone. I found a tall, spare man with very pale blue eyes, a man
of perhaps fifty years of age, going a little white about the temples
and a little bald on top. It was the room that I had expected I should
find, lined with bookshelves on all four walls, and with an oar slung up
above the mantelpiece. It was all very quiet and peaceful on that summer
afternoon. I close my eyes and I can see it now.</p><p>He greeted me cordially enough, and asked me to sit down. He indicated
an easychair, but I drew up a chair to the table in the middle of the
room and sat down there, resting my arms upon the table and facing him
as he stood by the fireplace. “I think we can cut the preliminaries of
this quite short,” I said. “I had two hours with Miss Jennings
yesterday. She told me a good deal about this gun running, that had not
been quite clear to me before.”</p><p>He did not deny or argue it; he was too good a man for that. “Exactly,”
he said quietly. And then he said: “Before we begin, I should like to
know just where your interest lies, if I may inquire? Am I to take it
that you represent the police?”</p><p>I shook my head. “I come in my own interest.”</p><p>He raised his eyebrows a little. “Ah, as a private individual.”</p><p>I stared at him grimly. “That is so. It is wiser to leave drunken men
alone, you know. Once you start violence things begin to go wrong.”</p><p>He nodded slowly. “I think that is so. From the first moment that I
heard of that affair I was afraid that trouble might arise from it.” He
broke into a smile. “And now it has. I am sure that you will not accuse
me of trying to disarm you if I offer my apologies for the treatment you
received, in which I had no hand?”</p><p>I stared at him. “You are right in fearing that trouble might arise from
me. It has. Bad trouble.”</p><p>He met my eyes. “I think you had better tell me what you want,” he said
quietly.</p><p>I considered for a moment. “This is Wednesday,” I said at last. “The
country goes to the poll on Friday week, in ten day’s time. On Saturday
next, in three day’s time, a story will appear in all the Labour Press
which will bring certain charges against you, personally, together with
Miss Jennings and the boy Marston, who was drowned. You know the story.
You will be accused of having attempted to bias this election with a
trick, to swindle the whole of England with faked propaganda in the
Conservative interest. That story will be supported with concrete
evidence which will bear examination, and it will be true.”</p><p>He had gone very white.</p><p>I sat there staring at him from behind the table. “I have come to you
now,” I said in a hard voice, “because I am merciful. This story will
appear on Saturday. I am giving you three days in which to cut the
country before you are arrested on a criminal charge.” I paused. “This
thing is now in train,” I said. “I mention that, in case you may be
thinking of more violence.”</p><p>There was a long slow silence in the room. Out in the court through the
open window, I could hear a hum of voices, undergraduates going to and
fro, and laughter now and then. There was a bee or two about a great
bowl of wild flowers in the window seat, and the air was fragrant with
the scent of them. And presently he moved forward and sat down at the
table opposite me. “Let me explain a little, if I can,” he said.</p><p>He thought for a minute, and then he began. And what he gave me was a
clear–cut reasoning, as logical as a judgment in the High Court, of the
motives which had led him to the action he had taken. He started in and
took me, very simply and concisely, through the economic history of
England since the war, and he drew parallels all through with the period
that came after the Napoleonic wars. I sat there at his table in that
summer afternoon and he talked to me as he would have expounded his
knowledge to an undergraduate, showing me cause and effect in the
kaleidoscope of politics and economic law.</p><p>And so he proved to me the essence of his creed. I call it a creed, for
it was one to him; I had no doubt of that. On his premises, as he gave
them me, it was inevitable that a further Labour Government would bring
the country to an irretrievable disaster. He sketched the country as a
blind man walking along the edge of a precipice, who follows the contour
up and down in little slumps, and always straying nearer to the abyss.
He proved this with economic logic that I could not controvert—upon his
premises. And so he led me to the centre of his whole belief: that the
one duty of a patriot who saw the country with unclouded eyes was to
prevent this frightful thing—by fair means or by foul.</p><p>He told me that this had come to him a year or more before, and he had
justified his implications in the intervening time. He sketched for me,
very lucidly, the possible courses that could be taken if the country
were to continue with a Labour Government, and he showed me in each case
the irretrievable disaster which in each case lay ahead within ten
years. And then he went on and told me, very briefly, of the steps which
had led him to enlist the services of one of his pupils to prevent this
thing, and how the enterprise had been conceived.</p><p>It would be idle to deny that he impressed me with his reasoning. He had
a keen, clear mind, and much of what he said was pitifully true. I sat
there motionless as he was talking, staring out of the window to the
bright sunshine of the court. I had lost everything I had to lose in
this affair. Had I been altogether wrong in my demand for justice, too
severe?</p><p>I raised my head, and he was speaking of the course that I had told him
I was going to take. “If you do this,” he said, “these things will
happen. You must not deceive yourself.” He smiled a little. “I can
assure you that I am not thinking of myself, although the prospect of
exposure is not … very palatable, I admit. But leave that out. If
you expose this matter in the Press, you will be swinging the country
solid to the Labour interests, and the consequences which I have
outlined to you will occur. That is mere cause and effect.”</p><p>He paused. “If on the other hand, you stop this Press campaign, the
matter rests as it is. You tell me that no action is to be taken by the
police till after the election has passed by. That means that the
election will take place without bias in either way. I cannot swing it
to Conservative, as I would have done. I am asking you not to swing it
to the Labour interest, and I have told you why.”</p><p>He stopped speaking, and there was a long silence in the sunlit room.
“That lets you out of it all right,” I said cynically. “I see that.” He
flushed but did not speak, and I moved over to the window and stood
looking down upon the creeper–covered walls and the smooth turf.</p><p>And presently I turned to him. “Five men have been killed in this
affair, and one girl. Three of the men were your agents, and as
murderers of the others they deserved to die. Marston was one of those;
if he had not been drowned he’d have been hanged. That is what you made
of him.” I paused. “One of the others was your lorry driver, and it may
be that he was so involved as to be culpable in this affair.”</p><p>I smiled at him, without mirth. “In fact, all your agents have received
their punishment, and only you are left.”</p><p>He did not speak.</p><p>I went on: “But it’s about the last two that I am concerned. You’ve
played your fancy game, and you’ve committed murder. You’ve murdered two
quite innocent people. One was a police official, a married man with
children. They’ll be left pretty badly off. The other was a little
dancing girl, from Leeds. She never did you any harm.”</p><p>I paused. “I should like to know what you are going to do about these
murders, first.”</p><p>He inclined his head. “About those”—he hesitated for a
moment—“murders, as you call them, nothing can be done, except
financially. I should myself refer to them as accidents, in that they
were not planned or willed by anyone. In this matter we were playing for
a great stake. We were playing for the future of this country and this
Empire. You run great hazards when you play for a great stake like
that.”</p><p>He turned on me. “You must keep a sense of proportion,” he exclaimed.
“These deaths are lamentable. But it is this country and this Empire we
are dealing with. The issue is the place that Britain takes, the future
of the Empire in the world. And you are putting in the scale against all
that, a policeman and a dancing girl!</p><p>“Think of it, man,” he cried. “A girl that you can pick up for a
sovereign in the street! What does one girl of that description matter
in a thing like this?”</p></section><footer/></body></html>
