<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:pls="http://www.w3.org/2005/01/pronunciation-lexicon" xmlns:ssml="http://www.w3.org/2001/10/synthesis" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><head><title>Chapter 2</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook-epub.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="epubbooks.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Stylesheets Vsnapshot_9885"/><link rel="prev" href="7.xhtml" title="Chapter 1"/><link rel="next" href="9.xhtml" title="Chapter 3"/></head><body><header/><section class="chapter" title="Chapter 2" epub:type="chapter" id="id70116623204760"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h1 class="title">Chapter 2</h1></div></div></div><p>The next point of significance in my story is a conversation that I had
with Dixon in the nursing home after my accident, a few days before I
was taken back to my own house.</p><p>He came and sat beside my bed one morning when he had examined me and
the nurse had gone away; he must have had an easy round that day. “I’m
going to move you back into your own house next week, I think,” he said.
“Would you like that?”</p><p>I was as weak as a kitten. I had a continuous headache, and I was pretty
miserable at night. I told him this, and said that I didn’t think that I
was fit to go.</p><p>He eyed me seriously. “You don’t get over an accident like this in a
day, or in two days, you know,” he said. “For one thing, you evidently
lost a great deal of blood from the wound in your head. Quite apart from
the concussion.”</p><p>Irrelevantly I cut him short and asked what I had wanted to know for
some days now. “What’s happened to my car?”</p><p>“It’s been taken down to Walker’s garage and they’re waiting for your
instructions before beginning on it. I saw it the day after the
accident, and I was very much interested.”</p><p>I asked: “Is she very much knocked about?”</p><p>“The radiator and the wings were very badly damaged,” he replied, “and
there was a lot of glass broken. But I found the most interesting part
to be the hole in the fabric of the roof over the driver’s seat, where
your head had hit. Your head must have gone very nearly through the
roof—I never saw such a thing. You must consider yourself very
fortunate that it was not a coach–built body.”</p><p>I was quiet for a time. “It’s a hundred–and–fifty–pound job, I suppose,”
I said at last, a little painfully. “She must need re–upholstering with
all that blood and muck.”</p><p>He wrinkled up his brows a little. “I doubt if she does,” he said.
“There was a little mess on the roof, but the inside of the car was
quite clean. I think you must have done your bleeding out of the window.
She was lying on her side, you see.”</p><p>I asked: “How long was I there?”</p><p>“A labourer found you on his way to work—one of the men on Halls Farm
at Stoke Fleming. He must have found you at about half–past six. When
did you leave Plymouth?”</p><p>I tried to recollect. “I think it must have been about half–past
twelve.”</p><p>He nodded. “You must have been lying there for about five hours. You
know, seriously, you’re extremely lucky to have come out of it so well.
You might very well have died in that five hours.”</p><p>I said: “Providence looks after fools and drunken men.”</p><p>He stared at me, and nodded again. “Yes. You may have been a fool—I
don’t know about that. But I do know that you were drunk.”</p><p>“So do I,” I said, a little shortly.</p><p>There was a little silence then. He sat tapping his pince–nez on the
palm of his hand and eyeing me, till at last he said: “You know, you’re
simply knocking yourself to bits. It’s time you pulled up and lived like
everybody else.”</p><p>“Damn it, man,” I said. “You talk as if I was a bloody dipsomaniac.”</p><p>He was patient. “I didn’t mean your drinking. I mean just this—that
you’re knocking yourself to bits. You don’t take care of yourself. Do
you, now?”</p><p>I lay and stared at him, half expecting to see him furtively consult his
notes. He was not at all at his ease, and suddenly it seemed to me that
he’d set himself a job that he didn’t like doing. “You’d better tell me
what you mean,” I said.</p><p>He cleared his throat, and considered for a moment. “I don’t know that
I’ve ever had a case quite like you. I’ve never had a patient of your
general physique through my hands so often as you, and with such a
variety of ailments. Just look at them. You broke your arm in two places
last summer in the races, and very nearly lost it, I may say.”</p><p>“Gybing in the devil of a sea,” I put in. “You can’t always rely on a
vessel when she’s like that—especially if she’s over–canvassed for
racing. You know that.”</p><p>He nodded. “That’s why every other boat but you made a wheelbarrow tack
at the buoy. Then, the winter before, you managed to turn a simple touch
of flu into a pleurisy, simply because you wouldn’t lie up.”</p><p>“I had some work to do,” I said. “That might have happened to anyone.”</p><p>“The point is, that it doesn’t. Then, before that, you got water on the
knee—not very serious, but you neglected it; and it’s only the mercy of
Providence that you’re not lame yet. Frankly, at the time, I thought
that it was becoming chronic.”</p><p>He paused. “Do you know that you’ve been in my hands six times in the
last two years? And it’s only for want of a little care.”</p><p>I hadn’t much to say that was worth saying. “I’ve been a pretty good
source of income to you, taking it by and large,” I said. “As good as
half a dozen old ladies. You don’t want me to mend my ways?”</p><p>I must have stung him up, somehow. “Well,” he said drily, “I want you to
go on being a source of income to me, anyway.”</p><p>There was a little silence.</p><p>“I see,” I said. “You think I’m a bad life.”</p><p>He thought about it for a moment. “No, I don’t. I didn’t like that
pleurisy at all. You’ve not got the resistance that you ought to have,
but that’s the infection you picked up in the war. But if you take care
of yourself, I see no reason at all why you shouldn’t live to be seventy
or eighty.”</p><p>“God forbid,” I muttered.</p><p>He was annoyed. “On the other hand, if you carry on as you’re doing now,
you’ll probably be dead within the next five years. You’ll gybe in a
squall when there isn’t a motor boat to pick you up, or you’ll get a
pleurisy when I’m not there, or you’ll crash your car where labourers
don’t come. And then you’ll die.”</p><p>“Yes,” I said. “That’s very likely what will happen.”</p><p>He was a little disconcerted and lost the thread of his argument. I lay
there staring out of the window while he was marshalling his fancies
into order again and I heard a steamer’s siren from the river, a sharp
double blast. “You might have a look and see what vessel that is,” I
said.</p><p>He stood up. “A little collier. About five hundred tons.”</p><p>I was interested. “The <span class="emphasis"><em>Black Prince</em></span>?”</p><p>He shook his head. “I don’t know them. She’s got one black funnel with a
double blue band.” And then he turned from the window and stood looking
down on me, his back to the light, his hands in his pockets. “You know,”
he said, “speaking as your medical man, I should advise you to get
married.”</p><p>I was hardly listening. It was the bi–weekly collier from Barry, but she
must have had a good passage, because she had saved a tide. Old Penrose,
who had had her since the war, had retired a month or so before and the
owners had given the command to his nephew, who used to be her mate; a
smart young chap who wore a brown bowler hat with his reefer jacket when
he came ashore. I wondered if he had taken to forcing her in good
weather, and whether she would stand it. Then I came back to earth and
Dixon was talking at me still.</p><p>He was very earnest. “I don’t know that I’ve ever recommended this
before—to anyone. But it’s what you need.”</p><p>I eyed him for a minute, and he didn’t like it. “You think so?”</p><p>He said: “I think so. Living alone as you do, you’re simply knocking
yourself to bits. And you don’t care a damn about it—do you?”</p><p>“No,” I said. “I don’t know that I do.”</p><p>He came and sat down beside my bed again. “Look here, Stevenson,” he
said. “I want you to realise that you’re a case to me, and nothing more.
This is a matter of business to me. I’m not trying to ferret round among
your private affairs; I don’t know anything about them, and I don’t want
to. I’m not trying to get at you. All I want to tell you is that, as
your medical adviser, I should advise you to get married. I think if you
did that, you wouldn’t find yourself in my hands quite so often.”</p><p>I nodded. “You mean that I ought to get someone to look after me,” I
said. “I expect you’re right.”</p><p>He was relieved. “I’m glad you see it like that,” he said frankly,
“because I don’t like giving this sort of advice at all. I was afraid
that you might think it a considerable impertinence.”</p><p>“Not at all,” I murmured. “Who do you suggest that I should get?”</p><p>He smiled. “Anyone you like. There are any number of nice girls about
who’d be only too glad to get married to a man of your position and your
means. You won’t have any difficulty in that way.”</p><p>“Yes,” I said quietly. “I’ve got the money. And that’s all that really
matters, isn’t it?”</p><p>He hesitated. “It goes a long way,” he said.</p><p>I agreed. “It does. I can pay for anything I want. You produce the
medicine, and I’ll pay for it all right.”</p><p>He laughed. “I’m a doctor—not a matrimonial agency. I can’t go chasing
round the country finding girls for you to marry. But I can promise you,
you won’t have any difficulty. Any girl would marry you. You must
realise that you’re a very eligible man.”</p><p>There was a little silence then. Dixon was right, of course, in what he
said; I had realised it myself five years before. A man who lives
entirely without women has only two alternatives as the years go on. He
gets self–centred and dirty, or he dies.</p><p>I laughed. “All right,” I said at last, “I’ll have Irene. I suppose
she’ll do as well as anyone. You might tell her when you go home. You’d
better send her up to me this afternoon.”</p><p>I forgot all that he said to that, nor am I sure that I should write it
down if I could remember it; he was very deeply hurt. His wife was dead
and he had only the one daughter, and a son who was abroad. I had known
the girl for some years by sight; I had watched her grow from a gawky
schoolgirl into a plump and homely young woman who kept house admirably
for her father, performed indifferently on the tennis courts, rode a
bicycle about the town, and read some woman’s paper from cover to cover
every week. A most estimable young woman and as dull as ditch–water, but
he thought the world of her.</p><p>He went away, very grieved and hurt. On reflection I thought that he
might see a certain element of humour in the situation; but when he came
again he was cold and professional, and I didn’t stir him up.</p><p>I got back into my house in the following week, and as soon as I got
back I went to work. Dixon was pretty rude about it—and to do him
justice, I don’t think it did me a lot of good, myself. I used to go
down to my office at about ten o’clock and dictate a few letters that
Tillotson would generally have to correct for me, and I would listen to
him while he outlined his plans for the freight programme in a series of
delicately–worded suggestions for my approval. Then I would send him
away and sit in my office for a bit with my head in my hands, nursing a
tearing headache; at half–past eleven Miss Soames would bring me a cup
of tea and I’d take a handful of aspirins with it, and go for a walk
round the yard. By then it would be time for a couple of drinks before
lunch, and after lunch there were generally things that needed my
attention in the yard. It was during that time that <span class="emphasis"><em>Thelma</em></span> came in
with her bitts carried away, warping at Fowey for the clay. That kept me
busy for three days and sent me a journey to Newton Abbot to pick the
timber that I wanted for the job, but mostly I spent the afternoons
setting up new running gear in <span class="emphasis"><em>Runagate</em></span>, and trying not to think about
my head.</p><p>I might have stayed at home for all the good I was. But down at the yard
there were things happening and people to talk to; I’ve never been one
for sticking in the house by myself, much.</p><p>My car took about a month to repair; in that month my cousin Joan
Stenning became Lady Stenning. Stenning received his knighthood within
half an hour of his landing on the Thames, having sweated and cursed his
way through his forty–thousand–mile flight alone round the world in the
little Rawdon Dabchick flying–boat. He took nine months over the flight,
which was more of a business trip than anything else, and he returned
with orders for over a hundred Dabchicks, booked upon the way. He took a
cinema camera with him and made films which were worth a considerable
sum; his machine was literally plastered with the advertisements of the
firms who had supplied him with equipment free. His flight showed a
profit of six hundred per cent on the capital involved, an achievement
only comparable with that of his progenitor, Sir Francis Drake.</p><p>His knighthood created a situation in my family which was not without
its quiet humour. Joan had married him in 1925, and had gone to live
with him in Golders Green, in undistinguished style. The family didn’t
like it a bit, Stenning was a professional pilot, and for a long time
after their marriage, if you flew from London to Paris, the chances were
that you would see him sitting patiently in the cockpit of the
aeroplane, high above your head, as you embarked. Even now, if you go to
the Rawdon Aircraft Company to charter an aeroplane the chances are that
you will be chauffeured by a Knight of the British Empire. The material
profits of his flight went mostly to the financiers who had backed him,
leaving him with little but his knighthood and experience.</p><p>My family didn’t quite know what to do about it. Sir Philip Stenning
could no longer be ignored; it was no longer possible to refer to Lady
Stenning as poor Joan. I wrote to congratulate him, and got a letter
back from Joan in which she asked if I would like to run her up to
Scotland for a week.</p><p>I really wasn’t fit to drive again, but I wanted that holiday with Joan.
It took me two days to get to London because I had to stop in
Shaftesbury and go to bed. Stenning had gone to Greece to try to get rid
of a few more Dabchicks. I hadn’t let anyone know that I’d been ill, but
Joan was very decent about it, and after a couple of days we set off up
north, Joan driving the Bentley.</p><p>We got to the MacEwens’ at Carthness in time for dinner on the second
day; if I had been fit we should have done it in a day and not been
tired. I stayed up there for ten days playing golf with Joan, and
sailing their dinghy, and watching the birds. In that ten days my
headaches went away, and I never got them back again. I get over these
things pretty quickly as a rule.</p><p>Joan was up there for a month, but ten days was all that I could spare
from the yard, and so I started off for home one morning in the Bentley.
I took it easily because Joan had made me promise to spend two nights
upon the way, and as she had been decent and not worried me about the
crash I was inclined to keep my promise to her.</p><p>By six o’clock I was at Boroughbridge and wondering where I should put
up for the night. York was not very far away, but I had stayed at York
on the way up in a very famous hotel with faded lace curtains in the
dining–room, and had not been impressed. And so for a whim, and because
I wanted to see people of the sort that I do not usually meet, I went to
Leeds and stayed in a very large and rather garish hotel in the middle
of the town.</p><p>I was very lonely that night. I had left people who liked me in Scotland
to come back down south to my empty house and to my own work, and though
I knew that I should be content with my life when I got back to
Dartmouth, for the moment I was discontented and upset. I dined alone
and rather expensively in the more select of the two restaurants of the
hotel, and at the table beside me there was a party of young men and
women dining not wisely but too well. In the south they would have been
thrown out with the hors d’œuvres, but they were having the devil of a
good time and I would have given my eyes to have been with them. There
were two or three parties of elderly business men with their
unattractive wives drinking champagne in solemn state, and there were
two or three fat, elderly foreigners dining alone like me and, like me,
trying to pretend that they were enjoying their dinner. I got tired of
the pretence half–way through and cut it short, ordered a cup of coffee,
and went out.</p><p>In the hall one of the waiters found me a cigar. I hung about there for
a bit and managed to get into conversation with the hall porter, and was
pleased to do so. He told me about the theatres that were on and I
didn’t like the idea of any of them, and then he started on the cinemas.
And finally he said:</p><p>“There’s a good Palais de Dance if you’re fond of dancing, sir. Quite a
good class place tonight. This is the two–shilling night, you know.”</p><p>I don’t dance more than once or twice a year, but I am very fond of it.
This was something rather new to me, and so I said:</p><p>“They have professional partners there?”</p><p>He smiled fatly. “Oh, yes, sir. Sixpennies, you know. Sixpence a dance,
or sixpence a sit out, which ever you happens to prefer. Nice
respectable young ladies they are—mostly.”</p><p>I nodded. The more I thought about it the more I liked the idea. I could
not face the thought of going through the evening alone, but for a pound
or so I could hire a girl to spend the evening with me. For once in a
way my money was some good to me, and so I went upstairs and changed my
shoes, and went out to the Palais.</p><p>I sat at a table by the floor for some time before dancing. It must have
been a pretty slack night at the Palais, because there cannot have been
more than a dozen couples in the place. The sixpennies sat in a pen in
the corner, smoking cigarettes and reading magazines; four or five girls
in black silk dresses and the same number of slight effeminate young men
in dinner–jackets. There was one girl there that I liked the look of
most, a little older than the rest, perhaps, and one who looked as if
she wouldn’t be much effort for me to entertain. And so at last I walked
up to the barrier and caught her eye, and I said: “Would you care to
dance this one with me?”</p><p>She glanced quickly up and down the little row of girls; a sort of
commercial rectitude that insisted that she must be quite sure that the
invitation was to her, and not to her neighbour. And then she looked up
at me and smiled, and said:</p><p>“Me? I’d like to very much.”</p><p>So we danced, and she asked me if I had been long in Leeds, and I made
the usual talk about the band and the floor and my own dancing, and she
gave little stilted answers. And suddenly it struck me that she was
busy, almost too busy to talk. Then I fell over her feet and she said
quickly: “Would you do that again?” I did it again, but her feet weren’t
there that time. It took her about a minute and a half to learn my
tricks. By the end of that quickstep I could do exactly what I liked;
she danced magnificently. The dance came to a truncated end and the
short encore; I walked her off the floor and put her back into the pen.</p><p>Three minutes later I got her out again for a waltz. Again she was busy
at first, so that I left her alone and we danced that one in silence. I
was taking her back to the pen again when she turned to me and said:</p><p>“You know, you don’t need to put me back in the pen again after every
dance unless you want to. They let us go and sit with gentlemen at the
tables, if you like.”</p><p>I said something suitable, and so we picked a table and sat down. And
hardly was my chair drawn in when she remarked:</p><p>“Would you like anything from the soda fountain? A cup of coffee or
anything? I’ll fetch the waitress for you, if you like.”</p><p>So I ordered a cup of coffee for her; she would not eat anything because
eating between meals was bad for the figure. Then I bought her
cigarettes. Then we danced again, and coming back to the table I had
leisure to examine what I’d got.</p><p>She was not very tall, perhaps a little higher than my shoulder. She had
long black hair tied up in coils about her ears and drawn straight back
from her forehead; she was extravagantly made up with a dead white
complexion and deep red lips. She had very large, black eyes and rather
a determined chin; when she smiled she was very friendly to me. Her
eyelashes were separated into little groups, very long, each group waxed
together like a little moustache. She wore a plain black silk dress and
a very small gold watch upon her wrist.</p><p>I said what a pretty little watch it was; she was pleased, and took it
off to show it to me. “A gentleman friend gave it to me,” she said,
“when I was working at Leicester. He was nice to me—isn’t it lovely? It
cost six pounds fifteen, and then he got something off because it was
through a friend in the business. Another gentleman told me that you
couldn’t buy a watch like this for under ten pounds. Fancy! But lots of
the gentlemen give us quite nice presents.” I murmured something or
other, and for a moment she paused to appraise my value. “He was
married, but his wife used to go away a lot and then he got lonely and
used to come and spend the evening with me. Are you married?”</p><p>“No,” I said, “I’m not. Are you?”</p><p>She studied me for a moment through a haze of smoke. “No,” she said at
last, “nor anywhere near it.”</p><p>She told me that her name was Miss Gordon, but her friends called her
Mollie. “I do think it’s soft,” she said, “when professionals make up
fancy names for themselves, like Edwina or Althea, like some of them
do.” She laughed. “Fancy me talking like that! I mean, they call me
Carmen here on Friday nights, because I do a speciality dance
then—tango—I’ve got a lovely costume for it. I do it with one of the
boys here, and he’s in costume too.” Then we talked about her
profession; she told me that she was paid ten shillings a week and half
the sixpences she earned. “But then there’s the tips,” she said, with
studied nonchalance. “Some of the gentlemen are very generous. Then
other times you’ll dance all night with a gentleman and never get a bean
beyond the sixpences.”</p><p>She told me a little about her pay. It was a good week when she took
home thirty shillings from the management; living by herself alone in
rooms she could hardly have got along without the tips. I was sorry then
that I had made her dig so laboriously for her gold, and so I said:</p><p>“How do the tips run out? Do people double the sixpences, or something
like that?”</p><p>She looked across the table at me with something that was very much like
friendship. “Not many,” she said generously. “You see, that comes to an
awful lot if you dance all evening.” She eyed me for a moment. “You’ve
not been to a Palais much, have you? It must be expensive for the
gentlemen, having us girls for every dance. Would you like me to go back
to the pen and dance again a bit later? Lots of people do that, you
know.”</p><p>“Rather not,” I said. “I’ve got money to spend tonight, and I’m just
beginning to enjoy myself.”</p><p>She laughed with me. “I like it when people have a good time here,” she
said, “because it makes it much nicer, doesn’t it?” And then she asked
me: “What’s your job?”</p><p>“I work for a shipping firm in the south,” I said. “I’m in the office.”</p><p>She nodded, and we went and danced again. She was immensely clever at
her job, very cunning in suiting her ways to mine. And presently she
began to educate me a little in the finer points of her peculiar art.
When that happened I knew that she was beginning to enjoy herself.</p><p>She said no more about money, apparently satisfied that it was going to
be all right at the end of the evening. She told me a little about her
life; it seemed that she had been brought up for the stage in some
fifth–rate theatrical school. For a few years she had scratched a
livelihood by occasional engagements in the chorus of provincial
companies; then she had abandoned that for dancing and had wandered in a
desultory manner from Palais to Palais, staying perhaps six months in
each. She told me that her home was in Preston.</p><p>“It’s not much fun being on the stage,” she said, “when you’re out of a
job most of the time. I’d rather do this. I’ve been in quite a lot of
Palais since I started. Bournemouth was lovely—I was a silly to come
away from there. But there was a gentleman….” She stared absently
across the floor, then roused herself and turned to me. “Sometimes one
gets mixed up in a place,” she said quietly, “and then it’s time to move
on.”</p><p>I nodded. “How do you like Leeds?”</p><p>She shrugged her shoulders. “I don’t think I’ll be here very much
longer. I want to get down to the south again, with the summer coming
on. Tell me, have you ever been to Torquay?”</p><p>“I know it pretty well,” I said. “It’s not far from where I work.”</p><p>She turned to me: “Is it lovely?” And then, without waiting for my
answer, she went on: “I’d love to go to Torquay. I’ve never been, but
everybody says it’s lovely there. One of the girls here went there for
her holiday last year with a gentleman, and she said it was lovely. It’s
all on hills, isn’t it, looking out over the sea, with a harbour and
boats and things?”</p><p>“That’s it,” I said. “The shops are all along by the harbour.”</p><p>She sighed. “I’d love to get into a Palais there. It must be lovely to
live in a place like that. But they don’t get many vacancies in those
places. The girls down there, they know when they’re well off.”</p><p>We danced again, and came back to the table.</p><p>“Been to many shows?” she asked.</p><p>I tried to remember when I had last been at the theatre. “Not many
lately,” I replied. “I expect you go to lots. Or can’t you get away from
here?”</p><p>She blew a long cloud of smoke. “It’s not very easy. You see, if you get
a boy that wants to take you out he has to book you out for the session,
and that costs twenty–five bob on top on what he spends outside. It’s
only the old ones that can do that, and I don’t like going out with
them. They get so silly. But I do love a show, better than anything. I
expect you don’t care for them much?”</p><p>I had had a long drive that day, and a good dinner. I was leaving Leeds
on the next day, and it was unlikely that I should ever see this girl
again. Sometimes it’s a luxury to speak the truth. “I like a theatre,” I
said. “I like to go and have a really good dinner somewhere, and go on
to a theatre, and then go and dance for an hour or so before bed. But
you want to have somebody to go with; it’s not much fun doing that
alone.”</p><p>She nodded. “Haven’t you got any girl friends to go with?”</p><p>I knocked the ash off my cigarette. “No,” I said. “They don’t seem to
come my way much.” I looked at her and grinned. “That’s why I have to
come and pay sixpence.”</p><p>She nodded, without laughing. “You’re too particular,” she said
shrewdly. “There’s ever so many like you come and dance with us—you’d
be surprised. There’s some that just don’t want to do anything but sit
and talk for a bit. It’s like as if they don’t seem able to fancy the
girl friends they can get, and can’t get the ones they fancy, and so
they come here. It’s funny, isn’t it? My brother now, he’s just the same
as you.”</p><p>I was watching an unpleasant youth dancing with an anæmic girl, an
extraordinarily graceful pair. “What does he do?” I asked absently.</p><p>Evidently she was very proud of him. “He’s in the motor transport
business. He’s got a lorry of his own. I hadn’t seen him for over three
years, and I didn’t know where he was or anything, but he turned up here
on Friday last week, and booked me out all Saturday, and we had a lovely
time. They told him at home that I was here. He’s doing awfully well,
down somewhere in the south. He takes carpet sweepers and things that
come from abroad from the boats and drives them to the factory, or
something. It’s all–night work.”</p><p>She paused. “He’s just the same as you—never seems to fancy the sort of
girl that he can pick up.” She bent a hostile eye upon the single ladies
sitting at their tables all alone. “And there’s some that don’t take
much picking up, either.” She paused. “We always used to do things
together when he was home, and it was lovely seeing him again.”</p><p>The evening was drawing to a close. I was tired and ready for my bed and
I had the suspicion of a headache which I wasn’t anxious to provoke.
“I’m going home in a little while,” I said. “Would you like something
from the soda fountain before I go? An ice, or anything?”</p><p>The hard, painted harridan of our first meeting had merged imperceptibly
into the girl friend that she had spoken of. “That ’ld be lovely,” she
said. “What can I have?”</p><p>“Anything you like,” I said, a little surprised. “What do you want?”</p><p>She hesitated. “Some of the things are rather expensive, you know.”</p><p>I had never had that said to me by any girl before. I smiled at her.
“It’s nearly the end of my holiday,” I said quietly. “I’ve got a lot of
money to blue before I go back home.” And she laughed, and said: “If
that’s the way of it, I’ll have a banana split.”</p><p>So I ordered two of these things, and when the bill came it was
half–a–crown. “I told you they were terribly expensive,” she said, a
little ruefully. We finished them and went and danced again, and after
that I sent her to find out my reckoning for me.</p><p>She came back. “It’s twenty–five dances. That’ll be twelve and six,
won’t it?” So I gave her twenty–five shillings, feeling that it was
miserably inadequate for the evening that she’d given me, and she said:
“Oh, that’s an awful lot. You are kind!”</p><p>We shook hands. “I’ve enjoyed this frightfully,” I said. “It’s been the
nicest evening that I’ve had for years.”</p><p>“It has been nice,” she said simply. “I’ve loved it. You’ll come back
when you’re in Leeds again, won’t you?”</p><p>And so my hostess said goodnight to me, and I went back to my hotel
alone. Next morning I set out for home.</p></section><footer/></body></html>
