<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:pls="http://www.w3.org/2005/01/pronunciation-lexicon" xmlns:ssml="http://www.w3.org/2001/10/synthesis" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><head><title>Chapter 4</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook-epub.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="epubbooks.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Stylesheets Vsnapshot_9885"/><link rel="prev" href="9.xhtml" title="Chapter 3"/><link rel="next" href="11.xhtml" title="Chapter 5"/></head><body><header/><section class="chapter" title="Chapter 4" epub:type="chapter" id="id70116621862040"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h1 class="title">Chapter 4</h1></div></div></div><p>All that afternoon I sat working with Tillotson in my office in the
yard. He had got some book on management that had a chapter upon cost
accounts, and we were trying to thrash out a means of harnessing the
ancient art of ship repairing with the reins of modern business. I
remember that particularly because it was a job that would take some
doing at the best of times, and I had only half my mind on it that
afternoon.</p><p>I broke off for a minute in the middle of the afternoon, and rang up
Dixon on the telephone. I wasn’t certain that he could tell me anything
I didn’t know, but I made an appointment, finished up early at the
office, and I went up to see him after tea. He greeted me by asking how
I was.</p><p>“Pretty fit physically,” I replied. “Mentally—perhaps not quite so
good.”</p><p>He grinned. “You’re looking very well.”</p><p>“Lunatics often do,” I said. “You should know that. Now, what I’ve come
about is this. I want you to tell me all about that injury to my head.”</p><p>He frowned in perplexity. “Tell you about it?”</p><p>I nodded. “I want to know exactly what sort of condition I was in when
first you saw me, after the crash.”</p><p>He raised his eyebrows a little and reached for a ledger on his desk. I
watched him with some amusement while he adjusted his eyeglasses. He
turned a few pages, and then stopped.</p><p>He coughed. “I saw you at seven–forty–five a.m.,” he said. “Well, you
were quite unconscious … blanched appearance.” He scanned the page.
“A lacerated and contused wound in the occipital region. Slight
hæmatoma—that’s bleeding under the scalp, you know. No hemiplegia.
Reflexes sluggish. Pupils equal, slightly dilated. Smell of alcohol.”</p><p>He glanced at me. “Is that what you want to know?”</p><p>I sat for a little time in thought. “I suppose it is,” I said at last.
“There’s just one thing. You told me that you saw my car before it was
repaired. You said it had a hole in the roof. Would you say that that
injury is in keeping with the hole?”</p><p>“I don’t understand.”</p><p>“Well,” I said, “the car’s got a fabric roof. From the inside, there’s
first a soft cloth ceiling, and then a layer of felt; and then a few
small laths, and then the outer fabric. There’s nothing very hard. You
say I rammed my head through the lot. Is that the sort of injury that
you’d expect?”</p><p>He smiled. “I really couldn’t say,” he replied. “I’ve never seen it done
before. But it’s the sort of injury you got.”</p><p>There was nothing to be gained by staying on. I got up and picked my hat
and stick up from the chair. “Oh, well,” I said, “it’s interesting to
know. Just one thing more. I suppose that injury could have been caused
by any sort of blow? Of course, actually it happened in the crash. But
you wouldn’t have to be in a car to get an injury like that?”</p><p>“Oh, no. It could happen in a great variety of accidents.”</p><p>I laughed. “It would be just like that if some kind friend had slugged
me on the head from behind?”</p><p>He laughed with me. “I should think so. Just like that.”</p><p>I nodded. “That’s all I wanted to know. Put it down to the concussion if
you like, or drink.”</p><p>But he got to his feet, his brows contracted in a frown. “You weren’t
speaking seriously?”</p><p>I moved towards the door. “It doesn’t pay to be serious,” I said. “It
only means that people laugh behind your back, instead of to your face.”
And so I went away, and back to my own house to dine.</p><p>That evening I wanted above everything to have a talk with Fedden. I
rang up his house as soon as I got home, but they didn’t know when he
was coming back. He was staying at his club in town. I went up and
dressed for dinner, as I always do when I’m alone, and went down to the
dining–room to eat. I cut it short and had coffee and my cigar in the
model room; I can remember wandering restlessly about the house all
evening, unable to settle down to anything.</p><p>Finally I put in a call to Fedden at his club. I was lucky in getting on
to him there, and I made an appointment to dine with him on the
following night.</p><p>I drove up to London on the next day. Looking back upon that time I am
surprised that I should have gone to London upon such a whim; I think it
would take more to stir me now. For many men, I suppose almost any
excuse would serve for a few days in town, but not for me. I hate the
place. I don’t go there more than once in six months, and then only when
I can’t avoid it. When I have to go, I get into my club and stay there
as much as possible; it’s a rotten town unless you’ve got a pack of
womenfolk about. The best solution is to go and stay with Joan.</p><p>Fedden dined with me that night. I told him that I had come up upon
business. He told me that he had spent both days between the Home Office
and Scotland Yard; I found him worried in his manner, and a little
tired. In my club there is a little smoking–room at the top of the
house, that looks out over St James’s Park; I took him up there after
dinner because I knew that we should have the room to ourselves at that
time of night, and we settled down with our cigars before the fire.</p><p>I forget what we talked about. I only remember that he was reticent,
very reticent about the business that he had been engaged on up in town.
I tried once or twice to edge the conversation in the direction of the
gun, but he sheered off most adroitly; Fedden is a bit of a diplomat in
a quiet way. Till at last I got fed up with it. I took advantage of a
pause, dropped the ash of my cigar carefully into an ashtray at my side,
and said to him:</p><p>“About that gun you showed me the other night.”</p><p>He turned a very cold, grey eye upon me. “Well?”</p><p>I said: “You’ll think it’s none of my business, and perhaps you’re
right.” I passed my hand absently across my hair—what Dixon had
described as the occipital region. “At the same time, I think I’ve got
something to tell you about it which may help, if you want to hear it.
In fact, that’s what I came up to town about.”</p><p>He shifted in his chair and turned to me, frowning a little in
perplexity. “You mean that you’ve come up about the gun?”</p><p>“You’ll think me a damn fool,” I replied, “but that’s exactly what I
have done.”</p><p>He lay back into his chair again. “If you’ve got any evidence which will
help us in the matter, we should be very glad to have it,” he remarked.
It amused me to notice his retirement behind officialdom.</p><p>“You mustn’t credit all I have to say,” I said. “I don’t know that I
really credit it myself. You must form your own opinion.” The darkness
fell slowly in the room as I sat there with him, telling him my
groundless little tale of disconnected incidents. I told him my memories
of the night before my crash, so different from the official story of
the accident, when I thought that I had gone across the field till I had
met a girl and seen a vessel on the beach. I told him about my apple,
and the carpet–sweepers, and the foreigner, and the man called Peter and
I described the boat to him.</p><p>A servant came to draw the curtains of the room and take away our coffee
cups, and when he had gone we sat on in the light of the fire and the
one soft reading lamp behind our heads, and I told him of the girl who
had been kind to me in Leeds, whose brother owned a motor lorry and took
carpet sweepers by night from the boats to the factory inland, away
somewhere in the south. Over the park we heard a bugle blowing the Last
Post, and I told him how Stenning had been in Rotterdam and had seen or
heard of carpet–sweepers being shipped in little boats for export into
England. I reminded him of the label on the packing case that had
contained the gun.</p><p>And finally, I told him how I had come to find my apple in the sand, and
how somebody had had a nasty accident among the dunes.</p><p>Then he sat quiet, until at last he said: “It’s none of it evidence.”</p><p>“I’m sorry about that,” I said.</p><p>“It may give us a line to go upon. I should like you to give it us again
at Scotland Yard tomorrow morning, if you will?” He paused for a minute,
and then he said: “There are certain features in this thing which make
it very difficult.”</p><p>I didn’t know what comment I could make on that, and so said nothing at
all. And after a little time he said: “So much depends on where those
guns were going to. Until we know that, our hands are tied … most
damnably.” His tone was strained and worried. “If we could get the lorry
driver, he might tell us that. The dancing–girl’s brother—if there’s
anything in what you say.”</p><p>I smiled. “There may not be,” I put in quietly. “I’ve had concussion
recently, you know.”</p><p>He turned and eyed me for a moment. “Yes, I know.” And then he said a
damn queer thing. He said: “Do you believe in God?”</p><p>I knew Fedden to be a deeply religious man—many soldiers are. I had had
this sort of thing from him before, but that didn’t prevent it coming as
a fresh surprise. “Well,” I said, a little awkwardly, “I don’t go to
church much. But I’ve been to sea a lot. I’m a master mariner, you
know.”</p><p>He nodded slowly. “Yes, I know.” And then he said: “Personally, I
believe every word you’ve said, but I’m not so sure that Carter will. I
believe God sent you to help us clean up this affair.”</p><p>I couldn’t keep my end up in a conversation conducted upon theological
lines, and so I asked:</p><p>“Who is Carter?”</p><p>“Sir David Carter,” he replied, “the Chief Commissioner.”</p><p>Better than God, I thought, and to direct his mind into more mundane
channels I asked how he had spent the last two days. It seemed that he
had been most of the time in consultation with the sleuths at the Yard.
Some aspect of the matter that he had learnt there had upset him
seriously, but what it was he would not say. Finally, at about midnight,
he went back to his own place to sleep, having secured me for the
following day.</p><p>I went to Scotland Yard with Fedden next morning after breakfast, and
for a time I sat in a lobby waiting for him while he went about his
business. Presently a sergeant came to fetch me, and I was ushered down
long stone passages till we stopped before an office door.</p><p>It was a fair–sized, decently furnished room in the government style;
very high and rather bare, strewn with heavy mahogany desks and
furniture, with mournful leather chairs and a settee belonging to a
bygone age. Fedden was waiting for me there with two other men. One of
them was a keen–faced, youngish man of about my own age; this was a
Major Norman. The other was a serious, white–haired man, not very old. I
shouldn’t say that he is more than fifty, though he is quite white. That
was Sir David Carter.</p><p>I told my disconnected little tale again in reply to a sort of
questionnaire from Fedden, and this time it seemed thinner, more
unlikely than it had ever seemed before. I was ashamed to tell it. It
seemed to have lost the quality of realism here; what was clear and
definite at home, in sound of the sea and almost within shouting
distance of the sandhills, seemed no more than the wildest guesswork and
hypothesis in Scotland Yard.</p><p>Fedden came to an end at last, when he had extracted from me all that I
had to say. The other two had listened to us in perfect, disconcerting
silence; it was impossible to tell how they were taking it. At the end
the man called Norman glanced at his chief, stirred, and took up the
task of questioning me, and for a further quarter of an hour took me
backwards and forwards over the story till he was satisfied that I could
tell him nothing more. And then there was a silence in the room.</p><p>Sir David Carter, sitting behind a very massive desk, tilted back his
chair and sat staring up at a cornice of the ceiling, immersed in
thought. At last he said:</p><p>“This is a very unusual story, Commander Stevenson. I must thank you for
coming up to give it to us so readily.”</p><p>I cleared my throat. “You must understand that I can vouch nothing for
its truth. Colonel Fedden will have told you that I’ve recently been
ill.” I paused. “Each time I tell this story it seems more likely that I
may be wrong about it all—that I’m imagining things.”</p><p>He tilted his chair forwards till it rested on its legs again, and faced
me steadily across the desk. “On the contrary,” he said courteously, “we
are very much afraid it may be true.”</p><p>I did not know what to say to that, and presently he went on:</p><p>“It fits very closely with information that has come to us from other
sources.” I wondered what the other sources were, but he did not
enlighten me. He was quiet for a little then, but presently he spoke
again.</p><p>“Commander Stevenson,” he said, “I must tell you that it is not our
custom here to take witnesses into our confidence. So much you will
appreciate. In the normal course of affairs I should now thank you for
your courtesy in coming to us, and I should send you home. If I do not
follow that procedure now, it is exceptional.”</p><p>He paused for a minute, and went on: “Sometimes a witness becomes so
deeply involved in the investigations which we carry out that it becomes
necessary for us to break our rule. In such a case, we demand the most
complete discretion. Colonel Fedden has told us that he regards you as a
discreet man, not much given to talk.”</p><p>I stirred in my chair. “I don’t go gossiping about the place,” I said.
“I don’t particularly want to be mixed up in anything, but having this
evidence, I thought somebody ought to know about it. If I can give you
any further help I should be very glad to do so. Otherwise, I’m quite
ready to go home.”</p><p>He nodded slowly, “We appreciate your attitude very much.”</p><p>He leaned forward, resting his elbows on the table, and began to talk to
me in very general terms. I sat there listening to him, puzzled. I
couldn’t imagine what he was driving at, why he was talking to me in
that way. He was giving me a little discourse on gun–running and its
objects, couched in the most general terms.</p><p>“In this instance,” he went on, “the problem cannot be very difficult to
solve. If a rising, or revolution, were contemplated in this country
today, the source from which it emanated would not be very difficult to
trace. So many sources may be discounted that the field becomes narrow.
For example, it would be difficult to imagine an armed revolt in this
country for the purpose of overthrowing the monarchy—today.”</p><p>I was beginning to understand. “I see what you mean,” I said. “There’s
only one revolutionary agency in England today—or only one obvious one.
You mean Russia, I suppose. Communism.”</p><p>He inclined his head. “I think it very likely that if these arms are
really smuggled in we should find such an agency in the background.” He
paused for a moment, and then he said:</p><p>“I should not have indicated this conclusion to you if it had been
merely speculation on our part. Unfortunately, we have had other
evidence, apart from this affair, that something of the sort might be in
train.”</p><p>I stared at him. “Do you know where those guns were going?”</p><p>The man called Norman stirred by the fireplace. “We know no details,” he
replied. “We only know that something of the sort might be on foot.”</p><p>I nodded. “Stenning may be able to tell you some more about where the
guns came from,” I observed. “But as for where they were going to, you
want the driver of the lorry.” I was silent for a minute then, thinking
of that painted, kindly girl serving her profession to the beating
rhythm and the changing lights.</p><p>Sir David Carter nodded: “Exactly so. In fact, our next step should be
to secure a little more information than you have been able to give us
from the woman in Leeds. The professional dancer, Miss Gordon.”</p><p>“Well,” I said, “that’s easy enough.”</p><p>Fedden coughed. “I’m not so sure about that,” he said dryly.</p><p>I eyed him in surprise. “Well,” I said, “you can have her up and ask her
where her brother is?”</p><p>The man called Norman spoke up then: “You must understand, Commander
Stevenson, that the police have no power to interrogate a witness. They
can invite the witness to make a voluntary statement, but the whole
conduct of these matters is not so easy as it was.”</p><p>Sir David Carter leaned forward in his chair. “I see no reason for
dissembling,” he said. “Frankly, Commander Stevenson, we find ourselves
faced with a difficulty in this investigation. I will put it to you as
briefly as I can.”</p><p>He paused for a little time, and then he said: “I would have you
understand that in this office our business is to keep the peace. To
surprise and to suppress any rising whatsoever that may be attempted
against the elected government of the country—no matter what political
aspect that rising may assume. Our business is to keep the peace of the
country.”</p><p>He considered for a moment. “In this instance the disturbance which we
suspect is identical in character with the Left Wing of the Government.
I see no point in mincing matters. We have in this country a moderate
Labour Government, and here, in the seclusion of this office, we suspect
that these guns are intended to arm a Communist rising of some sort.”</p><p>I nodded slowly. I was beginning to see something of the difficulty.</p><p>Sir David continued: “I trust most sincerely that further investigation
will show that our suspicions have no foundation in fact. But if they
should have such foundation, then I have confidence that the Government
will allow no political complexities to interfere with the proper
suppression of any attempt against the peace of the realm, and with the
punishment of the offenders. I have that confidence.”</p><p>He eyed me for a moment. “Supposing, however, a mistake were made in
this affair. Suppose that from this office we made public our suspicions
of a rising in the Communist interest, which events proved to be
groundless. It is not difficult to see the play which would be made with
such a mistake by the Left Wing. In this matter, we must have a
cast–iron case before publicity occurs.”</p><p>“I see that,” I said.</p><p>“I do not think that anyone would describe this as a cast–iron case at
the moment,” he remarked dryly.</p><p>He paused for a minute, and then he went on: “Therefore, we cannot
afford to give any publicity to this matter at the moment. And now we
come to a further difficulty. You spoke just now of the possibility that
we might interrogate this woman in Leeds about the movements of her
brother. I wonder if you realise our difficulties, today, in the
interrogation of feminine witness?”</p><p>I stared at him for a moment, and then I realised what he was driving
at. “I see,” I said. “You mean Lord Lee’s Commission.”</p><p>He inclined his head. “Exactly. Consider our position in this matter. If
we were to interrogate this woman in the manner which occurred to
you—and as we might have done a year ago—what should we be doing? We
should be taking information from her which might lead, in the end, to
the arrest of her brother upon a criminal charge. In all probability we
should not have indicated to her the result of any statement she might
have been persuaded to make. That would not further our interests, you
see—which are, to catch criminals.”</p><p>He paused. “The British public is very chivalrous, Commander
Stevenson—too chivalrous for its own safety. Methods of crime detection
which were adequate a year ago, today are hampered and restricted. If we
were to interrogate this woman in such a way today, tomorrow the whole
matter would be in the hands of her local Member of Parliament. And then
…publicity.”</p><p>The window was open at the top; through the opening I could hear the
noises of the traffic in Whitehall, and a girl singing, and a piano, in
some building near at hand. There was a bee on the window pane, and I
wondered where the devil he had come from. I sat on my Victorian leather
chair and stared around, at Fedden, at Norman, at Sir David Carter. All
of them seemed to be studying me, as if they found in me the solution to
their difficulties.</p><p>“I see that this case is not an easy one,” I said quietly. “What I don’t
see at the moment is why you have told me about it in this way.” And I
stared at Carter.</p><p>He smiled a little. “Such a question is justifiable. We have told you
about it, because in our opinion the matter can most readily be solved
with your assistance. I should say that you are at perfect liberty to
refuse to assist us, in which case we shall only ask for your discretion
when you leave this office.”</p><p>I stared him in the eyes. “What do you want me to do?”</p><p>He bent forward and toyed with a pen upon his desk. “I believe the
information that you have given us to be most valuable,” he said at
last. “We want only one more light upon the case before we take the
matter up in earnest. We want to know something more about the woman’s
brother, the man who runs the motor–lorry. Where he is usually to be
found, the name of a friend who knows his whereabouts, the address to
which a letter should be sent to reach him—almost anything will serve
our purpose. Once we have access to the man we can proceed upon our
usual lines without the grave risk of interrogating the woman.”</p><p>He raised his head. “This woman spoke to you about her brother when you
were dancing with her before. We should like you to go to Leeds and
dance with her again.”</p><p>The bee still buzzed upon the window pane, the dull thunder of the
traffic still sounded from Whitehall. I was about to speak, but he
stopped me.</p><p>“One moment. I have said that you are at liberty to refuse us this
service, but I should like you to give it full consideration before you
speak. This importation of arms is a serious matter for the country,
Commander. It means—it may mean civil war. Imagine it for a moment, if
you can, civil war in England, at this time. The country pulling round
and becoming prosperous again—industry finding its feet. And then—this
thing.” The pen–holder snapped in two between his fingers, but he did
not seem to notice it. “For myself, I cannot bear to think of it.”</p><p>He raised his head. “This is a distasteful service that we are asking of
you, but a very small one. Even so, I should not have suggested it but
for the fact that in you we have a man whose record is—quite out of the
ordinary.”</p><p>I met his eyes and stared him down. “I murdered thirty German sailors in
the war,” I said harshly. “I suppose that’s what you mean. Seems to me
that’s a damn good credential for a job like this.”</p><p>Nobody moved when I said that, and for a minute nobody seemed to know
quite what to say. I didn’t help them; I was busy with my own
reflections. I was thinking of the girl in Leeds, and how decent she had
been to me that night. I was thinking of how she had been afraid that I
was spending more than I could easily afford.</p><p>At last I broke the silence myself. “Let me get this right,” I said.
“You want me to go to Leeds and dance with this girl again, and get her
to talk. You want me to find out some information which will set you on
to her brother, without letting her know that this is a police matter.
That’s what you want?”</p><p>The man called Norman stirred. “That is what we want. Some means of
finding the brother when we want to pull him in.”</p><p>I stared at him. “I should be glad if you would talk English. Some means
of finding the brother when you want—to do what?”</p><p>He flushed angrily, and Sir David Carter interposed. “It is very
necessary that we should be able to keep the brother under observation,”
he said smoothly. “You will appreciate that. If this man is simply the
driver of the lorry and no more, I doubt if it would be necessary to
take any further steps in regard to him.”</p><p>I sat there for a minute, deep in thought. “What happens if I can’t find
out anything at all?”</p><p>“Then we shall have to deal with the matter with our usual machinery,”
he said. “It means a grave risk of publicity. And frankly, I do not
consider that this case, at present, is strong enough to bear a critical
examination.”</p><p>I nodded. “So that if I don’t go to Leeds, you’ll have that girl up and
interrogate her?”</p><p>“In all probability,” he said.</p><p>I sat there resting my chin upon one hand and staring into the
fireplace. I was thinking of the life that I had been living since the
war, what I had done and what I had achieved. It wasn’t very much—a few
old sailing ships gathered into a barely economic trade. It seemed to me
that the life I had been leading for the last ten years had done little
good to me or anybody else. One must live steadily and do what one can.
As for this matter of the girl who had been kind to me—well, that was
just my luck.</p><p>I raised my head and glanced across to Carter. “All right,” I said
quietly, “I should be very glad to go.”</p><p class="center">*        *        *        *        *</p><p>I got away from there as soon as possible, and went back to my club.
Fedden walked back with me, but I had little to say to him, and
presently he went away. I lunched and went out to the Academy, and there
I put my name down for the little study of seagulls that now hangs in
the library above my desk. Then back to the club to spin my dinner out
over an hour and a half, and read Surtees till I went to bed.</p><p>Next morning I took the Bentley after breakfast and set out up the Great
North Road, lunching in Newwark with the best part of the journey done.
By teatime I was back in that garish, over–furnished place in Leeds,
sitting and smoking in a corner of the lounge, watching the young
business men and brokers with their girls, who thronged the place. There
was nothing else to do, and I sat there till dinner, wondering what was
going to happen to me that night. I dined alone, and went out
immediately afterwards to the Palais.</p><p>The place was fairly full. I sat for a little while at a table alone,
watching the dancers and wondering how to set about the business I had
come upon. The girl was there. I could see her sitting in the pen,
reading a magazine and now and then passing a desultory glance around
the room. I knew that she had noticed me and presently I went and
fetched her out to dance.</p><p>It seemed to me that she was changed in the weeks that I had been away.
The set phrases, the fixed smile were all the same, but beneath it she
seemed listless and depressed. I took her out for a waltz; she danced
beautifully, but there was no life in it; it was as if she had lost all
heart and interest in her work. I cursed myself for a fool that I had
ever come upon a crazy job like this, took her back to my table, ordered
her a cup of coffee, and gave her a cigarette.</p><p>She roused a little when the coffee came, and made a definite effort to
entertain me. “I’m so glad you’ve come in again,” she said. “I often
thought about you, and wondered if you’d come back. I said to Phyllis
only the other day, I said I wondered if you were coming back again
ever. It’s ever so nice when people come back.”</p><p>I smiled. “Who’s Phyllis?” I inquired. I didn’t particularly want to
know, but I did want to make it easy for her to talk about the things
she knew.</p><p>“One of the other professionals here—that girl over there.” I saw a
lithe young girl with very fuzzy hair, dancing with a Jew. “I’ve been
teaching her to swim at the baths in the morning. I do think swimming’s
lovely. Would you like to dance this one?”</p><p>We went and danced to the slow, haunting rhythm of a fox–trot in the
changing lights. It seemed to me that that Palais was a place where one
should dance exquisitely or not at all; the floor was too large for the
mediocre. I said as much, regretting my deficiencies.</p><p>“You’re not so bad,” she said. “Not half so bad as a lot of the
gentlemen. I could give you a lesson any morning, if you like,” she
added hopefully. “It’s only five shillings.”</p><p>I repressed a smile; it was a sign of returning animation that she was
looking about for business. “I think I shall be busy all tomorrow,” I
replied. “I’m only up here for a day or so.”</p><p>“Have you come up on business?” she inquired. I said I had; so much at
least was true. “It must be fun travelling about like that,” she said, a
little wistfully. “One gets tired of just staying in one place
always….”</p><p>The dance came to an end, and we went back to our table and the lukewarm
coffee. “You haven’t been down south since I saw you?” I asked. “To
Torquay or anywhere?”</p><p>I was very much alert that night, on the look out for any detail which
might help my game. I saw at once that I had touched upon some tender
spot; she laughed, but not for merriment. “No,” she said. “You don’t get
away much when you’re in Palais.”</p><p>I nodded sympathetically. “You must get fed up with it,” I said. “Do you
like Leeds?”</p><p>She shrugged her shoulders. “It’s not bad. But I don’t like towns at
all—not really. Or maybe that it’s just the holiday season.” She was
depressed. Then she roused herself and said brightly: “I say, you must
think me mopey tonight. Aren’t I awful!”</p><p>I eyed her for a moment. “Not a bit,” I said. “I think you’re very
tired. What you want is a good holiday.”</p><p>“My holiday begins on Sunday,” she said simply. “But I’m not going to
take it after all. Maybe I’ll get it later on.”</p><p>“Why not?” I asked. “I’d take it if I were you. Do you good.”</p><p>For a time she wouldn’t tell me, but presently it all came out. It came
in little disjointed, disillusioned sentences, fragments that I had to
extract and piece together one by one. And when I had it all, I found I
had a story that had something of a tragedy in its ordinariness.</p><p>Her working hours were from three in the afternoon till midnight, six
days a week with no half holiday. Unprotected by any union or
organisation of that kind, her working year included all Bank Holidays;
Easter to her was a Sunday and no more; she worked on Boxing Day. She
was paid ten shillings a week, plus her commission and tips; this gave
her an average income for the year of about two pounds a week. She was
allowed one week’s holiday a year, unpaid.</p><p>It was pathetic, the importance which she set upon this holiday. She
didn’t say much, but I gathered that she had been saving all the year
for it, garnering her two–shilling pieces and half–crowns week by week.
By careful economy she had amassed nearly seven pounds towards it; she
was going to Scarborough with a girl who worked in an office in Pudsey,
and who hadn’t got a boy friend either.</p><p>Man proposes, but God disposes. She got influenza and had a whole week
off duty; that knocked her back over three pounds, with her living
expenses, doctor’s fees, and medicine. Since she had been back her
business had been rotten, and she had been forced to draw still further
on her little store. Finally, the manager told her that she must get a
new pair of shoes because hers were getting so shabby.</p><p>I don’t think I’ve ever been really short of money, all my life; all my
life I’ve never had to work harder than I wanted to. It took me a little
time to realise the magnitude of the disaster. I said:</p><p>“Isn’t there anyone who you could borrow from, and pay them back later?”</p><p>She eyed me for a moment quite inscrutably. “I expect so. I know lots of
gentlemen who come here who would lend me money if I asked them.”</p><p>There was a subtlety in that that put me in my place; I remember
thinking how very wearing it must be to be on the defensive all the
time. I said:</p><p>“I don’t mean strangers. But haven’t you got any relations, or anyone
like that?”</p><p>She smiled, and softened a little. “There’s only Billy. He’s doing
awfully well. He’s my brother, you know—I told you about him before.”</p><p>This was the business I had come to Leeds about. For a moment I wondered
absently whether anyone at Scotland Yard really cared a tinker’s curse
about the peace of the realm, or whether they just sat there and earned
their money in the job that they were paid to do, comfortably
unimaginative.</p><p>“You could go to him, couldn’t you?” I asked.</p><p>She shook her head. “I don’t know where he is. I wouldn’t mind borrowing
from him.”</p><p>I wrinkled my brows in perplexity. “Don’t you know where he is at all? I
mean, you could get in touch with him if there was trouble at home, or
anything like that?”</p><p>She shook her head again. “He’s down in the south somewhere, but I don’t
know where. If anything happened really, I suppose we’d ask the
wireless. Like those SOS messages they always have.”</p><p>She said: “He never was one for writing much, or reading a book. And
they’re the same at home.”</p><p>I took her out upon the floor for a waltz and thought about what I had
learned. It was clear that she could tell me nothing of her brother’s
whereabouts, and, frankly, I was glad. I hadn’t fancied the job from the
outset, and now it seemed to me that I was free to go back to London and
report that I could find out nothing. The police, I thought, could get
along and do their own dirty business now.</p><p>I knew what they would do. They would assume that I had been clumsy in
my methods. They would begin where I left off and have her up and put
her through a sort of Third Degree. In the end such an interrogation
might quite well prove awkward for the police, but that was their look
out; it seemed to me that this girl had trouble coming to her more
serious than the loss of her holiday. I wondered absently what they
would trick her into saying about brother Billy.</p><p>We went back to the table. I offered her a cigarette, and then I sat
there silent, staring out across the floor at the dancers and the band,
wondering what would come of this affair. Some little movement of her
roused me.</p><p>“I’m sorry,” I said. “I was going to sleep.”</p><p>She laughed. “What were you thinking about?”</p><p>I smiled. “As a matter of fact, I was just thinking there must be some
way of getting in touch with your brother, if you wanted to. Do you know
the number of his lorry? You could do it that way.”</p><p>She shook her head. “I only saw it just the once.”</p><p>“You should know what make it was?”</p><p>She looked worried. “He did say. Something beginning with D. Not David.”</p><p>I nodded slowly. “Was it a Dennis? A thirty–hundredweight Dennis?”</p><p>She brightened. “That’s what he said—I remember now.
Thirty–hundredweight Dennis. Are they good?”</p><p>“I think they’re very good,” I said. “There’s an awful lot of them
about, though. You wouldn’t find him that way.” I eyed her for a moment.
“I don’t suppose you could pick that lorry out from amongst a lot of
others like it in the street, could you?”</p><p>She laughed and dimpled. “Oh, yes. It’s got horseshoes on it.”</p><p>“Horseshoes?”</p><p>“Mmm. They’re ever so lucky. Billy said it isn’t easy to get horseshoes
now.” It seemed that he had decorated his lorry with a shoe on the
radiator and another on the tailboard at the back. “So I’d just go along
the line till I saw a lorry with a horseshoe on the front, and I’d know
that was the one, you see.”</p><p>We went and danced again, but I asked her no more questions. She had
told me all she knew, and my work in Leeds was done. She had no means of
getting into touch with her brother, though she could identify the
lorry; it was very probable that she could identify it even in its
present burnt–out state. That was my report to Sir David Carter; I had
done what I could for them, and they must get on with their
investigation in their own way now.</p><p>As the evening went on, things improved. Her depression disappeared and
I had little to do but listen while she talked to me about the little
matters of life; how she had been teaching her friends to swim, and how
they had got tickets for a trade show at the talkies, and they were
lovely. She had changed her rooms since I had been there last because
her landlady got ill; and she liked the tweed of my suit, it was ever so
soft and nice. A quickstep wasn’t a slow foxtrot and I mustn’t dance it
like one. Phyllis had got a boy who was doing awfully well in Bradford
and was taking her out quite a lot; wasn’t it lovely for her? The band
was leaving next week because they had had a row with Mr Banks; it was
awful, and the new one was coming from Wimbledon. Two of the men
professionals had left and gone roller–skating at Scarborough. The cat
in the kitchen of the restaurant had had kittens and the cook said she
might have one, but she would have to see her landlady about it first.</p><p>I don’t know how she did it, but she got me talking to her that night. I
don’t generally say very much, I sit and hear what other people have to
say. But that night I remember doing what I could to make her see my
life; I sat there talking to her about the things I like. The way the
porpoises come up and play round the vessel on a summer evening, diving
underneath her keel all silvery and green, and coming up alongside her
to blow. The subtlety of the tides and the pleasure of the dawn at sea
after a night on deck, and the smell of bacon from the galley. The great
loneliness of a bell buoy, the smell of oilskins and salt water, and the
crash and thudding of the cold grey seas when you’re beating on a wind
in winter. The slow framing of a vessel in the yard, the smell of hot
tar, the litter of oak shavings on the slips and the piles of sawdust by
the droning band saw in the shop.</p><p>And she said: “You do like your work, don’t you? I mean, the sea, and
ships and all.” She was looking at me rather queerly.</p><p>I smiled. “I’m frightfully sorry—I must have been boring you stiff. I
expect everyone you get in here wants to start talking about his job.”</p><p>She shook her head. “They don’t—not much. Sometimes it might be nicer
if they did … I’ve never heard anyone talk like you. I’ve been to
the seaside, but I didn’t know it was like that. You’ve been a sailor,
haven’t you?”</p><p>I nodded. “I was in the Navy in the war.” And then, to kill those
memories, I took her out and we danced again very merrily, and coming
back I said: “You’d like a banana split after that, wouldn’t you?”</p><p>She dimpled. “It would be lovely. I haven’t had one, not for ever so
long. Fancy you remembering!” And so we ate these things and counted the
cherry stones, and danced, and smoked and danced again.</p><p>Till in the end the opening bars of a tune brought us both up to our
feet staring at each other in amazement, for it was midnight and the
band was playing God Save the King. The table before us was littered
with spoilt menus of sundaes and ices, because I had drawn a ship for
her, and she had drawn a pig, and from that we had progressed between
the dances through the whole field of animal and naval art. I stared
across the table and said:</p><p>“I had no idea it was so late.” Then we went together to the desk and I
paid her her dances and her tip. She took the money without glancing at
it, but stood looking up at me a little wistfully, and she said:</p><p>“You’ll come in again some time, won’t you?”</p><p>My work in Leeds was finished; I had nothing now to do but to get back
to London and report. I said: “Of course I will, Miss Gordon. I’ll
probably come in tomorrow night.”</p><p>She smiled. “That’d be lovely.” And so I walked back to my hotel and up
to bed, tired and content.</p><p>I had all next day to kill. I took the Bentley after breakfast and went
out of the city rather aimlessly in the direction of York. In an hour or
two I was well back into the past and wandering all through the lanes
and byways of the York and Ainsty country, where I used to stay with my
uncle Jim in the holidays, long before the war. They used to mount me on
a strawberry roan, a beautiful little mare. They’re none of them there
now. Arthur Cope was killed at Passchendaele, and Mary married and went
out to India, and Uncle Jim died soon after the war, and I went
wandering through the lanes that day in my expensive car alone. Things
change.</p><p>I was slowly making up my mind. My report to the police was that the
girl could probably identify the lorry even in its burnt–out state; she
had no means of access to her brother. I knew what they would do.
Rightly or wrongly, Norman would ‘pull her in’ and take her down to see
the burnt–out wreck; if she identified it she would be submitted to a
sort of Third Degree in the hope that she would let slip some admission
which would put them on to the track of her brother. The police were
right. Their business was to catch criminals, to rout out the whole
truth of this affair, and that was undoubtedly the way to set about it.</p><p>The most that I could do was to make things a little easier for her.</p><p>Eight o’clock found me back in the Palais at the conclusion of a very
boring day. The girl was there, waiting for me in the pen. I went to get
her, and she came out to meet me on the way.</p><p>“It was nice of you to come,” she said simply. I don’t know why, but
something in the way she said that startled me. She said it almost
humbly, as if in dancing with her I was doing a great kindness to a
lonely girl.</p><p>We went and danced, and chose a table by the floor, ordered our coffee
and danced again. We were very well together by that time; the band was
good and the floor clear. I had never danced so pleasantly in all my
life. She was less depressed than she had been the previous evening. She
chatted freely to me of her little interests, and presently I asked if
she had thought any more about her holiday.</p><p>She shook her head. “I saw Ethel today, and she’s fixed up to go with
another girl in her office. Scarborough it was, you know.” She stared
absently around the room. “I’ll stay on here and maybe get a holiday in
the autumn.”</p><p>I said: “It’s rotten luck.”</p><p>She turned to me and smiled. “No good getting mopey about things, is it?
I expect you’ve found that. It doesn’t do any good.”</p><p>I was silent for a moment. “No,” I said at last, “I don’t know that I
have.” She looked puzzled. “But anyway,” I said, “I’ve never had to lose
a holiday like this. So I don’t count.”</p><p>She eyed me seriously. “I’ve not lost my holiday. It’s just that I
haven’t the money to do what I’d like to do. Seems to me it’s just a
question of being happy with what you can get, and not bothering with
the things you can’t afford. It’s the same for everyone that way.” She
bent across the table to me, earnestly. “I mean, it is, isn’t it? I
mean, you’re fond of the sea and ships and things. But you don’t go
worrying because you can’t go on an ocean cruise on a liner, like they
advertise. To Monte Carlo, and that. Fares from a hundred and fifty
guineas.”</p><p>“No,” I said, “I’ve never worried about that. But then I don’t specially
want to go.”</p><p>She said: “You couldn’t go if you did want to, and so you just don’t
want to. It’s just like me and Scarborough—only you’re more sensible.”
She smiled, a little bitterly.</p><p>“I think it’s you who’s the sensible one,” I said quietly, and we went
and danced again. I had no courage to match the courage she had shown,
no experience to help her in the disappointment of her holiday. All that
I could do would be to give her money and so spoil her confidence.</p><p>She began to tell me about the various habitués of the place, pointing
them out to me one by one. She had something of a flair for character
and a very shrewd knowledge of men—the chief defensive weapon in her
armoury. I rallied her on this and provoked her to a laughing defence of
her judgment. She said: “You just get to know. I mean, you don’t have to
dance with a man more than once or twice to know what he’s like and what
he does.”</p><p>I laughed with her. “Including me, I suppose.”</p><p>She dimpled. “You told me all about yourself, so that doesn’t count.”</p><p>“Tell me something that you’ve found out for yourself, that I didn’t
tell you.” I paused. “I’ll give you an easy one. What’s my income?” I
asked, a little ironically. “How much money would you say I made a
year?”</p><p>She blew a long cloud of smoke, and eyed me for a minute. “Not less than
six hundred,” she said at last. “I don’t think very much more.”</p><p>I smiled. “Why not more?”</p><p>“You’d have got married,” she said simply. “A man like you.”</p><p>I laughed; I had no answer to that deductive reasoning. “That wasn’t a
very good one,” I remarked. We sat for a moment in silence looking out
upon the floor and at the dancers in the moving, changing light. At last
I said:</p><p>“As a matter of fact, I make a good bit more than that.” About forty
times as much, but there was no point in splitting hairs. “I didn’t tell
you any lies when I said I worked in a shipping office in the south. I
do work there, but I’m the owner of the line. The ships are mine.” I
paused. “And then, of course, there’s other things….”</p><p>I smiled. “And so you’re a bit off the map about me getting married,” I
said. “I could afford to, but it’s never quite come off. You’ll have to
think again for that one.”</p><p>“You’re too particular,” she said. “It’s not often that I’m wrong like
that.”</p><p>We went and danced again; it was a quickstep and a merry one at that, so
that we were laughing when we came back. I said: “This holiday of yours.
Will you be here next week?”</p><p>She shrugged her shoulders as she lit another cigarette. “I suppose so.
They think I’m going off, but I’ll have to see Mr Banks and see if he’ll
let me stay on now, and have it later. I expect he will.”</p><p>I laughed. “You’d better come down south with me,” I said. “I’m motoring
down tomorrow.”</p><p>She eyed me quietly across the table, but said nothing at all to that.
There was a long, tense silence while I waited for her to say something,
wondering whether I was going to be chucked out of the place with
ignominy. She sat there opposite me, very still, smoking and staring at
me across the table, inscrutable. I thought of Norman and his methods,
and I said:</p><p>“You could do that. I live at Dartmouth in a biggish sort of house, with
only a housekeeper and a couple of servants. If you care to come down
there for a week I’d——” I got stuck in that sentence and began again.
“It would be a very great pleasure to me,” I said quietly.</p><p>I had roused her curiosity. She moved a little and looked puzzled. “I
don’t understand. Do you live all alone like that, in a house? Don’t you
have anyone to look after you, or anything? Just servants?”</p><p>“Just servants,” I replied.</p><p>“Isn’t it sort of lonely?”</p><p>“It is at times. That’s why it would be so very good of you to come and
stay with me.”</p><p>She stared at me, a little helplessly. “I don’t know what to say.” And
then she said: “Is this place near Torquay.”</p><p>I know now that Torquay had been a dream city to her for all the years
she had spent in the grey business districts of the north. “It’s not so
far away,” I said. “Go over there as often as you like.”</p><p>She said: “It’s lovely, isn’t it? All on hills above the water, with
shops on the quay, like you told me. Everyone says it’s lovely
there….”</p><p>“You’d better come and see it for yourself,” I said casually. “You’d be
quite all right. All my bedroom doors have keys on the inside. And all
my guests pack up and go away after the first couple of days because
they can’t stand me any longer. So you needn’t let that worry you.”</p><p>She smiled. “I’d not want to do that.”</p><p>We went and danced again. That was a foxtrot and a very stately dance;
we never spoke at all. At the end we went back to the table and ordered
something called a fruit parfait, which she said was lovely. And sitting
there I turned to her and said:</p><p>“Don’t worry if you’d rather not come down with me. You can go to
Scarborough just as well; I’d like to stand you that, if you’ll let me.
I’ve had a damn good time these nights that I’ve been here, and I’d like
to know that you could get away.”</p><p>“It’s been lovely for me,” she murmured. “It’s been so different.”</p><p>I had an envelope all ready for her in my pocket, and now I passed it to
her across the table. “I don’t suppose I’ll be coming here again after
tonight,” I said quietly. “But there’s ten pounds there, if you’ll take
it, and it’ll give you a decent holiday in Scarborough. Or if you’d like
to come with me it’ll give you something to spend, and if you don’t like
the way I carry on you’ll be able to get away from me. But either way,
I’d like you to have a proper holiday this year.”</p><p>The parfaits came, and proved to be a tinned peach and an ice mixed up
together in a cup. “I shouldn’t be able to give you all my time,” I
said. “I’ve got my work to do. In the mornings you’d have to amuse
yourself. But it’s by the sea and there’s boats and things to play about
with, and I expect you’d like it if you came.”</p><p>She sat there staring at me absently. “You are a funny one,” she said
after a time. “Let me think.”</p><p>She sat there staring out across the floor, her chin resting on one
hand. She looked very tired, and older than her years. An unpleasant
little Jew moved by and spoke a word to her; mechanically she smiled at
him. A waitress came and swabbed our table with a dirty cloth. The air
was heavy with the acrid smoke of very inexpensive cigarettes; it was
hot in the Palais with a moist, unpleasant stuffiness. Above the jazz
melody and the shuffling feet I heard the rattle of the machine that
issued tickets for the sixpennies.</p><p>She turned to me. “All right,” she said at last, “I’ll come away with
you.”</p><p>They were playing a Blues. The saxophones wept and moaned, the dancers
walked upon the floor in long–drawn graceful movements, the lights swung
and changed colour to the plaintive rhythm. A draught from some door
brought a sudden whiff of clean air into the place and made me raise my
head. I heard the wind sighing in the rigging of my boat, I heard the
halyards flapping on the mast, and I wondered if the mooring chains were
chafing at the bobstay in the running tide.</p></section><footer/></body></html>
