<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:pls="http://www.w3.org/2005/01/pronunciation-lexicon" xmlns:ssml="http://www.w3.org/2001/10/synthesis" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><head><title>Chapter 12</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook-epub.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="epubbooks.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Stylesheets Vsnapshot_9885"/><link rel="prev" href="17.xhtml" title="Chapter 11"/><link rel="next" href="19.xhtml" title="Chapter 13"/></head><body><header/><section class="chapter" title="Chapter 12" epub:type="chapter" id="id70116620946200"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h1 class="title">Chapter 12</h1></div></div></div><p>That finishes the story that I set out to write when I began this book.
I started on it so that I could keep the memory of what were very happy
days for me; by writing so far I have satisfied myself, and that is all
that I set out to do. There is nothing more that I would wish to tell or
to remember. If I go on, it is because a job once started should be
finished off; I would not leave the tag end of this story hanging in
mid–air. In writing what remains I shall try to stick to facts and let
the fancy go. Cold facts should not be difficult to put down.</p><p>Perhaps cold facts are harder than I thought. I have sat for a long
time, and I am at a loss to convey in writing the great suddenness and
violence of the shots. For they shot at us from the garden with an
automatic gun, shot from the darkness into the bright radiance of the
lighted room. We were so unprepared, so stupefied, when it began.</p><p>We were in the dining–room, all standing up and about to move forward to
sit down round the table. Mollie and her brother were standing a little
way apart from the rest of us, to our right as we stood facing the north
window. It came so very suddenly. The first thing I can remember was the
crash of broken glass, and the sharp clamour of the gun outside. In the
frozen silence of the moment, broken only by the gun, I heard the
bullets hit.</p><p>Eighteen bullets came into the room, not more than that, but in five
seconds two of us were dying on the floor. I think the first shots
missed. There was a low cry from Mollie and her brother threw her to the
ground, and a sort of gasping as he spun around, tottering above her
with the bullets pumping into him. Then as he fell they traversed;
Stenning and I were down behind the table by that time, and Fedden went
down with a bullet in the neck. The Superintendent was too slow, and
fell, shot cleanly through the heart. A shot ripped Norman’s sleeve, but
he got down unhurt.</p><p>In the infinite, stunned silence when the firing stopped, I remember
Stenning said:</p><p>“Get these damned lights out!” But the switches were high up upon the
wall, and nobody was fool enough to stand upright to turn them off. I
crawled across towards Mollie, and as I went I saw Norman wriggle out
through the service door into the kitchen quarters, and I saw Stenning
creeping forward by the wall towards the broken window. I got to her and
found her conscious on the floor, her eyes filled with pain. Her left
shoulder was a mass of blood. “My dear,” I whispered, “is this all?”</p><p>She nodded slightly “I do feel so sick.” She had gone very white. “But
it’s all right. Please, see after Billy.”</p><p>I turned and bent over him without much hope, for I had seen men fall
that way before. And while I was examining him the door moved open and
the lights went out; Norman had come in from the back and thrust his
hand through, well protected by the door.</p><p>The room was very dark. A little light came filtering through the
shattered window, and a little breeze came into the room; outside, the
wind was strong. Billy was dead. I laid the body down and crawled
towards the other two. Fedden was unconscious and bleeding a good bit
from the neck wound; I found the Superintendent dead.</p><p>A shadow darkened the window and I looked up in alarm, but it was
Stenning getting out into the garden. In the hall I heard Norman’s voice
upon the telephone, speaking quite quietly. “I want nine one,
please—nine one. The police station. Will you hurry it? Yes.”</p><p>I could not but admire the courage of the man. He was audible all over
the house, which was in complete darkness; he had pulled out the master
switch. He could not have known what enemy was lurking within hearing;
he sat there, tied to the telephone, a sitting shot for anyone who cared
to shoot at him. In a minute I heard him speaking to the police station.
Crouching over Mollie in the darkness, I knew that help was on the way.</p><p>I got up and moved out of the door to him, saying as I went in the
darkness: “It’s Stevenson. Ring up eight two. That’s Dr Dixon. Tell him
to come here, and have the fire brigade ambulance brought up.”</p><p>I heard him start that call and ran upstairs to get some shirts for
bandages. And as I came down to the hall again someone else came from
the dining–room. It was Stenning, and he said:</p><p>“I saw them go. There were two of them, carrying one gun, on the north
lawn. They went down through the fuzzy to your bathing beach. They’ve
gone right down. You can put the lights on now.”</p><p>Norman said quickly: “Which way is that? There’s landing for a boat?”</p><p>Outside, the wind howled dolefully; it was getting up in earnest.
Stenning nodded. “You can get a boat in there, but it’s a rotten night
for it.”</p><p>Norman hesitated for a moment. “Get down to the beginning of the path
and watch they don’t come up here.”</p><p>He moved away and suddenly the lights came on again. Stenning went out
into the night I went through into the dining–room and found Norman
bending critically over Fedden. “Give me a pad here, quick,” he said.
“Have a look at the girl.”</p><p>I stooped by Mollie and began to strip her shoulder. The bullet had gone
through, breaking her shoulderblade; it was a clean wound in front and
torn and ragged at the back. I remember that I thanked my stars that it
was not more serious, and wondered, as I put a pad on it, whether or not
old Fedden would pull through. It would be terrible if he died, I
thought.</p><p>Mollie was quite awake, and in some pain. I moved her as little as I
could, but I could not help hurting her a good deal. And when I had
finished she whispered: “Please, Commander Stevenson. Is Billy dead?”</p><p>I remember that I thanked my stars I had not got to tell her that. “My
dear,” I said, “I’m afraid so.”</p><p>She said no more, but lay there crying quietly. I glanced across at
Norman working over Fedden, and asked him if he wanted help. He said he
was all right, and where were those infernal police? And so I sat there
holding her uninjured hand among the ruins of my blood–soaked
dining–room, wiping away the tears that trickled from her eyes and doing
what I could to comfort her.</p><p>And presently the room was full of people standing over us, Dixon, alert
and competent, with a fellow from the fire brigade, and very many
police. “Have a look at Fedden first,” I said. “He’s bad.”</p><p>Then there were stretchers and a clearing of the room; Norman had gone
and there was a policeman at the door. And after what seemed many ages
Dixon came across to me and said: “I think he’ll do all right. Now for
the young lady.” And he stooped over her, undoing all my pads with his
deft hands and talking in his best professional manner—he made a quick
inspection—“That’s not very bad,” in cheerful manner, and began
bandaging again with proper things. Finally he gave her a morphia
injection, and they got her on to a stretcher and went out to the car. I
followed it, and saw it move away.</p><p>Dixon lingered for a moment before following in his own car. “Fedden is
serious, I’m afraid,” he said. “I don’t say critical, but serious. The
girl is not so bad.”</p><p>Freed from anxiety I felt the anger rising in me in a slow, cold tide.
“This girl,” I said bluntly. “She’s all I’ve got. Ought I to stay near
her?”</p><p>He looked at me curiously. “I don’t think she’s in any danger,” he
remarked; “although, of course, there’ll be some pain. There will
probably be a disability in some degree, more or less permanent.
Why—are you thinking of going away?”</p><p>“I don’t know,” I said slowly. “I only know that two men have been
murdered in my house tonight.”</p><p>He turned briskly to the door. “The girl should be all right if things
go normally,” he said. “I am more concerned for Fedden than for her.”</p><p>He went off in his car to follow up the ambulance, a fine, competent
fellow and a man that one could trust. I turned back to the hall, and
there was Norman with Stenning by his side, and a police official of
some sort.</p><p>Stenning said: “They’ve got away. They’ve got a vessel in the Range.
They went out in a dinghy, sculling.” He said that a rift in the clouds
had shown them that much from the top of the cliff.</p><p>Norman said grimly: “They’ve arrived a day before their time—and they
were warned. That fellow Palmer has been wise to all that we’ve been
doing here.” He turned. “I must get off. We’ll warn the ports all up and
down the Channel. They can’t get away.”</p><p>“Don’t talk such nonsense,” I said angrily. “They can land anywhere they
like. They aren’t in charge of the <span class="emphasis"><em>Olympic</em></span>.”</p><p>He turned on me. “What would you do, then?”</p><p>I laughed unpleasantly. “Me? I’m going for a sail in my tug.” Outside,
the wind howled noisily around the house; it was rising to a full gale.
“It’s a nice night for a pleasure trip,” I said sarcastically.</p><p>“You’ll never find them in the darkness, on a night like this,” he
replied. “They may be anywhere at sea.”</p><p>“You bloody fool,” I said. “What wind is it?”</p><p>Stenning answered: “It’s about south–east.”</p><p>I went on: “They’re in a sailing vessel, possibly with an auxiliary.
That’s all the evidence. Where can they go to get away from here? They
can’t beat up against a gale like this. Even with an auxiliary they’ll
not lie seven points from the wind. God, man, you know that!”</p><p>“That’s right,” said Stenning. “I see what you’re getting at.”</p><p>Norman looked from one to the other. “I don’t understand,” he said.</p><p>“Oh, come in here,” I said impatiently. I marched him into the model
room and ripped a chart out of the drawer and laid it on the drawing
board. Then with pencil and parallel rule I drew quick lines. “There’s
the wind. There’s the most southerly course that he can lie, going east.
He gets embayed with Portland—he can’t help but go ashore if he goes
that way, somewhere near Bridport. You’d better watch the coast from
here to Portland, just in case he’s a damn fool.”</p><p>I paused, and drew rapidly. “That’s the course that he can lie going
west. He should be able just to scrape around the Start. Then he must
bear up for the Lizard if he’s going to get away. He can lie to in the
Irish Sea till this blows out, and then go where he wants.” I took a
quick glance at the barograph, and at the isobar chart of the day
before. “This wind may last for thirty hours or more. It’ll move into
the south a point or two at dawn; he’ll have to keep close hauled for
the Lizard. He’ll have all that he can do to make it. You want to watch
the coast from here down to Penzance.”</p><p>Norman said: “You mean that you’d go westwards in the tug?”</p><p>I packed the chart and barometric chart together, and put in a rule, a
pencil and protractor. “I do,” I said. “He can no more change his road
than if he had a motor car. I shall come up on him some time in the
forenoon within sight of the Eddystone.”</p><p>“I see,” said Norman thoughtfully. “What then? Can you board him?”</p><p>I shook my head. “Not in this sea,” I said. “He’s armed, too. I can only
hang on to him, and trust you get in touch with me before nightfall. I
shall have a signal lamp, but no wireless.”</p><p>I turned to him. “Give me a sergeant and a constable. I think that I can
find him and hang on to him, and I think you’ll find us tomorrow
afternoon between the Lizard and the Start, a bit towards the Lizard.
I’ll signal the Eddystone if I get near enough. Warn them.”</p><p>“All right,” he said at last. “I think you’d better go. Be careful,
though. I’ll let you have a sergeant and a man.”</p><p>I turned to Stenning. “Will you come? I’ll want a hand from time to
time, I fancy, on a night like this.”</p><p>There was no time to be lost. I went to the telephone and rang up the
night watchman at the yard, and told him to go along and warn the tug’s
engineer that we were putting out in half an hour. He was to rouse him
at his house, and tell him to bring down what food he had; we should be
out all night and the next day. Then I went up with Stenning to my room
and changed into sea–going kit. Coming down I found my sergeant and his
constable waiting in the hall; the sergeant was a stranger to me, but I
had seen the constable about the town from time to time. Neither of them
had any arms, and I did not think we would need any. Our only function
could be to find our quarry and hold on, mark where he went.</p><p>Then to the larder to collect what food there was, and to the stables in
the rainy bluster of the rising gale. It was about half–past one when we
were in the Bentley on our way down to the yard.</p><p>It was a filthy night. I drove in a cold, numbed sort of way. I do not
think I was particularly excited: I only remember a slowly growing anger
that was turning to cold hatred of the people who had done this violence
in my house. I was not especially sorry for the victims, that I can
remember, for the Superintendent or for Billy or for Fedden. All these
were in the game and subject to its chances. But as I drove down to the
quay I think I knew that I was going to kill the people who had shot at
Mollie, if God gave me strength.</p><p>The engineer was waiting for us at the tug; he had been quick enough. I
swung out of the car upon the quay and turned to him. “Morning, Fleming.
We’re putting out at once.” I turned to Stenning. “Tell him what it’s
about, and get on board and get her started up.” Then to the policeman:
“Give a hand, and get that stuff aboard.” And I went down into the
little cuddy of the tug, and pinned the chart down on the table, and
laid off our course to clear the Start.</p><p>Behind the bulkhead a great heave and rumble told me that the port
engine was alive. I went on deck and forward to the wheelhouse; as I
passed the engine hatch I stopped and peered down. Stenning was there
with Fleming, a lighted blowlamp in his hand; they were labouring to get
the starboard engine under way. I went forward and uncast the lashing
from the wheel and stripped the cover from the binnacle, lighted the
binnacle light and saw that it was filled with oil. Then a low increase
in the rumble told me that the starboard engine was alive; I rang Stand
By and Stenning rang it back to me. Then he appeared on deck.</p><p>I leaned from the wheelhouse. “Cast off your stern rope now,” I called;
Stenning jumped aft and presently I heard him cry: “All gone!” The bow
ropes were cast off and I rang Slow Ahead; the vessel stirred and slid
quietly from the wharf into the main stream of the tide.</p><p>I worked her up to full speed as we went down the harbour, while
Stenning and the police made all fast upon deck. I called up Stenning to
the house and warned him to get everything secure and battened down, but
Stenning knew as well as I did what we should find beyond the Range. He
got her pretty well squared up, showed the police the cuddy and put them
down there, and came up to the house with me.</p><p>For a summer gale it was a devil, that night. Out in the Range the wind
was straight onshore, blowing the tops off the short waves and crashing
them against the wheelhouse as we steered. It was pitch dark and
difficult to see more than the bows. I held on till we took one green
over the bows and Stenning stirred beside me, but he didn’t speak. Then
we took another rather worse; I put my hand down to the telegraph and
rang Half Speed.</p><p>She took the sea more easily that way, and we went out to the open,
rolling and pitching with a short, uneasy motion that was worse than
anything I can remember in that way. She is rather an unusually short
boat, with a good wide beam and little draught; in that heavy sea she
got a screwing action on her every now and then that I would back to
turn the strongest stomach up. Throughout that night and the next day we
were all sick. The policemen were the worst; they lay for the majority
of the time in coma in the cuddy, which got in a filthy state. Fleming
stuck it like a man, coming up now and then out of his engine–room to
vomit on the sea–swept deck. Stenning and I stuck by the wheel and did
our stuff, soaked to the skin and trembling with cold, out of the
lee–side window of the house. The vessel was a wonder in a seaway; when
we slowed down she hardly took a drop on board, but I have never sailed
in anything that had a motion like she had.</p><p>I took her out to give a wide berth of the land that night. When I
judged Downend to be well abeam I turned and brought the sea on to her
quarter, and set her on a course to pass some three miles off the Start.
That took me well clear of the Skerries Bank and all the broken water
that we should find there; whatever our quarry in the bawley might be
going through, I had no fancy to get into any further trouble than we
could avoid. The turn gave her a fresh set of motions in the wind–swept,
screwing waves, and set us vomiting again.</p><p>All night we carried on like that, cold and alert, eating a little now
and then and vomiting it up again. Dawn found us off Bolt Head with
Salcombe on the beam, and on a straight course from the Lizard to the
Start. As I expected, with the dawn the wind went round a bit; I judged
that with the wind we had, about Force 8, their vessel would have all
that she could do to lie the course, even assuming that they had a good
big engine holding her nose up to the wind. So far as I could see, that
course would take us four miles south of the Eddystone lighthouse.</p><p>We went rolling and screwing on our way. At seven o’clock I gave the
wheel to Stenning and went aft. In the engine–room Fleming, white as a
sheet, was trying to brew tea in the incessant motion of the ship; he
smiled as I came down and said that he was quite all right, and wanted
no relief. If he could make a drop of tea he would bring it up to the
wheelhouse. I went aft to the cuddy and found both policemen on the
floor sunk in a sort of coma after vomiting. They were in a bad way and
no good to us at all; I left them there, and went back forward to the
house carefully, on the soaked and heaving deck. In general the
visibility that morning was about two miles.</p><p>At about half–past eight, in a short lull between the squalls, I saw the
vessel dead ahead.</p><p>She was about two miles away, close hauled and shrouded in the mist,
lying sensibly the same course as ourselves. I judged her to be of about
twenty tons; she had a trysail set and heavily reefed down. I only saw
her for a minute or so; Stenning saw her first. Then she was covered in
a rain squall, but we knew that we were on her track.</p><p>I judged that we were then about five miles south–east of the Eddystone.
I was unwilling to close with the vessel to a range of less than half a
mile; I had no wish to have a hail of machine–gun bullets flying at us
through the scud, and that was pretty certainly what we should get if we
went close. I carried on our course, and twenty minutes later, when the
squall passed by, we saw her closer, little more than a mile off.</p><p>I had a good view of her then. She was a bawley, and I saw three men.
They were crouched in a heap on deck about the stern; if she had any
cockpit it was a shallow one. As I tried to keep her in the dancing
field of my binoculars I got a strong impression of glasses staring back
at me. Then the rain came again, and blotted her from view.</p><p>I held a discussion on her then, bawling to Stenning in the clamour of
the gale. We decided to lie off and head a little to the north. Then we
would lie to and intercept her course. I had in the back of my mind that
we might head her off and make her bear away, and once she ran down wind
I knew that she would never round the Lizard till the wind went down. We
should have got her then imprisoned in the Bay, and we could take her
when we wished.</p><p>I altered course more to the north. We saw her once for a few moments
when she was abeam, and they probably saw us; a quarter of an hour later
we picked up the Eddystone. Stenning is better with the signal lamp than
I, and he went aft to rig it in the cuddy.</p><p>I sent a short message for them to transmit to Norman, saying we were in
touch, and got a short acknowledgment from that windswept tower. I did
not dare to hang about for a reply but got the vessel on her course
again, a course that would bring us out some three miles ahead of the
bawley, by my figuring. We held on this one till about twelve o’clock,
and then hove to upon the windswept waste to wait until the vessel came.
I did not keep stationary, but slowly patrolled a two–mile line at right
angles to her course.</p><p>We waited for two hours on that sickening, squalid beat, cold and
wretched and soaked through to the skin. Fleming contrived to make soup
and brought it up to us with sea biscuits to eat with it; I kept mine
for an hour or two and felt the better for it, but Stenning was not so
fortunate. We sent Fleming aft to do what he could for the policemen. He
took them aft something to eat, but I don’t know that it did them any
good to speak of. Stenning and I stayed in the wheelhouse taking turns
at the helm and on the watch, and at about ten minutes to two we saw the
bawley again.</p><p>She was coming up to us; we lay dead in her course. We saw her in a lull
between the squalls, perhaps two miles away. I put the tug to slow and
waited in her path; the rain came down again and blotted her from view.
We lay there waiting, straining our wet eyes into the scud. In half an
hour that squall let up a bit and visibility improved; we stared around,
but she was nowhere to be seen. By all the rules she should have been
somewhere close to us by then if she had held on to her course.</p><p>Then Stenning picked her up. She had squared right away and she was
running to the north, making towards Fowey perhaps, or Looe. I turned to
Stenning and grinned sourly, and Stenning grinned at me. “Turned him,” I
shouted, and he nodded back.</p><p>If the wind held we had him then. Already he was too far down the wind
to hope to beat up round the Lizard, unless he had the luck of a good
shift into the east. Rather than sail up close to us he had chosen to
take his chance of dodging us inshore; I knew then that we were hounds,
and we could put him where we liked. I turned the vessel and we wallowed
after him in that unpleasant sea, the aft cabin battened down upon the
police and trailing a little oil upon the water as we went to still the
combers that slid under us. It was bad country, but the hounds were
running heads up by that time.</p><p>I gave the wheel to Stenning and became immersed in mental calculations
of the tides. I did not think that he would try to land. His object must
be to attempt to put us off, to keep out of our way till night fall
came, when he would try to beat away around the Lizard into safety. He
had about seven hours of daylight left to do it in.</p><p>We came up on him and followed perhaps three miles away. Visibility
improved throughout the afternoon; the rain got less, but there was no
diminution in the wind. I kept as far from him as possible while keeping
him in view; I meant that he should still feel free to dodge about. I
knew that while he thought that he was free I could manœuvre him to
where I wanted him to be.</p><p>He held on for the land, and by about three–thirty he was close inshore,
between Fowey and Looe. He turned eastwards then as if to make Rame Head
and Plymouth.</p><p>Stenning turned to me. “Just dodging about up and down the coast till
dark,” he shouted.</p><p>I nodded, and swung the vessel on a course for Plymouth that would bring
us out ahead of him. “Slip downstairs and see what time high water is at
Dover,” I said to him.</p><p>He stared at me in astonishment, but went, and I stayed at the wheel,
brooding over the murder in my house.</p><p>Stenning came back. “High water at Dover eleven–eighteen,” he said.</p><p>I nodded. “Say five–thirty here.” He nodded his assent, puzzled, and I
glanced at my watch. Then after a little thought I turned the vessel a
point more to the east; it would be time enough if our friend turned
west again at four–fifteen.</p><p>And at four–twenty he did so. We were right in his path then and some
three miles ahead of him, just off Rame Head. He put his vessel right
around, and headed back the way that he had come; I laughed, and turned
also, and followed him, heading four points to seaward of his course to
convoy him along the coast again. “Dodging about,” said Stenning. He
glanced at me uneasily “They’ll get away as it gets dark, if someone
doesn’t come and give a hand.”</p><p>I twisted my cracked lips into a smile. “Don’t worry,” I replied.
“They’ll all be dead by dark.”</p><p>“What do you mean?” he asked, startled.</p><p>“Just that,” I said, and fell to brooding over the doings of the night
again.</p><p>He stared at me, but said no more, and we went wallowing upon our course
in the late afternoon. “He’s got to turn once more,” I said presently.
“Just once. Slip down and get the chart that covers Dodman and the
Shackles, will you?”</p><p>He brought it, and I handed him the wheel and fell to studying the
chart. The Dodman point lies between Fowey and Falmouth, and the
Shackles Reef lies flung out from it like a scythe, eight cables long.
The tide runs in a race around those rocks in the first hours of the
ebb, a full two and a half knots. I studied the wind. I had gone back a
point into the east; I turned to the rain–sodden chart and set the point
where our good friend should turn again.</p><p>At five o’clock I altered course, and made as if to steer for Looe. That
made me cross behind him, not much nearer than two miles, and gave him
encouragement to carry on.</p><p>And then I started to close up. I followed in his wake along the coast
till it was evident that he could lie the Dodman and get down to
Falmouth; then I went out to sea and passed him, and lay to by the
Thresher Rock that marks the seaward limit of the Shackles, and is
buoyed. Through the blown scud the clamour of the bell came mournfully
to us over the waves; in the blown drifts of rain we saw the bawley
labouring to us. “This is the end of it,” I said to Stenning; “if he
turns. You’d better get those policemen up on deck for them to see.”</p><p>Over a mile away we saw the bawley come up to the wind, shiver in irons
for a moment, and lay off on the other tack. “He’s going back along the
coast again,” cried Stenning. “What do you mean by saying it’s the end?”</p><p>I smiled against the beating of the gale. “He’s got a three–knot tide
now setting him upon the Shackles. No vessel ever built could beat
against that in this wind. In half an hour he’ll be ashore. Look at it
for yourself.”</p><p>He grasped the chart and stood there bending over it. “Good God!” he
said. “He’s embayed already, and he doesn’t know it!”</p><p>“That’s right,” I said.</p><p>He raised his head and stood there staring at me. “You put him there.”</p><p>I met his stare. “Yes,” I replied, “I put him there. You’d better go and
get those policemen up on deck.”</p><p>He turned and went away aft, and I stood there watching the fading
evening light. It was ten minutes before they realised the hole that
they were in. Then they shook out two reefs and tried to drive her out
in little tacks as their sea room got less and less.</p><p>At seven–twenty–five I closed right up and drifted down a lifebuoy to
them, carrying a light line. I had no faith that anything that we could
do would help them then, but it would please the coroner. The line broke
when they got the buoy, before they could pull in the hawser that I had
laid out.</p><p>At seven–forty–five she struck, about three cables from the land. I had
the tug about a cable’s length away; we lay there watching, helpless to
do more than we had done. The mast fell as she struck, and she was swept
at once by every wave. She went to pieces as we watched; I saw no sign
of any men.</p><p>As it grew dark I drew away, and headed up for Plymouth. Off Rame Head,
carrying a high sea on the quarter, we were badly pooped; the tug
broached to and we were in a nasty mess. God sent us respite for a
minute and a half, so that by the time the next one came we had things
straightened up, and we passed the breakwater with the starboard engine
dead and a foot of water sluicing in the engine–room. It was midnight
when we anchored in the Cattewater.</p></section><footer/></body></html>
