<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:pls="http://www.w3.org/2005/01/pronunciation-lexicon" xmlns:ssml="http://www.w3.org/2001/10/synthesis" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><head><title>Chapter 15</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook-epub.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="epubbooks.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Stylesheets Vsnapshot_9885"/><link rel="prev" href="20.xhtml" title="Chapter 14"/></head><body><header/><section class="chapter" title="Chapter 15" epub:type="chapter" id="id70116621049500"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h1 class="title">Chapter 15</h1></div></div></div><p>There was a silence after he said that. Down in the court I heard the
voices of the undergraduates talking and chaffing by the doorway of some
staircase. They were talking about a round of golf, and dinner at some
pub up river late that night. I remember that, because it was listening
to them that helped me fight my anger down as I stood there. For the
moment I was seeing red; it was as if he had slashed me in the face with
a whip. And I think he saw that something had gone wrong, because he was
very quiet when I came to answer him.</p><p>I moved across the room, and sat down again in my old position at the
table, facing him. “I have listened to what you have to say,” I said
harshly, “especially the last part. And I regard it as a pack of
nonsense. The whole thing is a figment of your own imagination, nurtured
by your own conceit.” And then I shot at him, suddenly: “Have you ever
lived in Manchester?”</p><p>He shook his head.</p><p>“Or Newcastle, or Birmingham? Tell me, have you ever earned your living
in any great industrial town?”</p><p>He said: “We have considerable industries here in Cambridgeshire. But I
am a scientist of economics, as you might say. Not an industrialist.”</p><p>I nodded slowly. “Leeds is a town as well as Cambridge, but about thirty
times as many Englishmen live there. And you know nothing of them, nor
of Birmingham, nor Newcastle, nor Manchester. You’ve lived your life out
in this little hole among your little class, and yet you’ve got the most
disastrous conceit to legislate for them, the people that you do not
know. How do you know what may be good for them or bad, or what they may
do or they may not do?”</p><p>I stared at him. “Time you were out of this,” I said. “You’d better pack
your bag and get away. This matter will go on.”</p><p>He had gone white again. “What do you mean to do?”</p><p>I rose to my feet and faced him across the table. “I mean to drive you
out of this into the world, for the bloody murderer and scoundrel that
you are. You’ve got three days in which to get away before I start this
thing, and if you don’t get out, on Sunday you will be arrested as a
criminal. You will be tried for murder, and I think that you may hang.
The Government and all the country will be crying for your death. But if
you get off that, you won’t get off a term of penal servitude. That
means the end of everything for you.” I stared around his delicately
furnished, scholarly room. “You’ve done with all this.”</p><p>“Yes,” he said quietly.</p><p>I eyed him for a moment. “If I were you I should get off to South
America.”</p><p>He faced me, very white. “I want you to understand that I am not
speaking for myself. But for the country. I believe that if you do this
thing it means disaster, irretrievable. I would not have that happen,
quite apart from what may happen to myself.” He paused, and then said
earnestly: “I want to explore every avenue. Is there nothing that will
influence you to change your mind about this Press campaign?”</p><p>There was a heavy silence in the room. “Nothing whatever, while you are
alive,” I said evenly.</p><p>There was a long silence, broken only by the voices of the
undergraduates below, and the low twittering of some bird among the
creepers near his windowsill. “I thought that might be it,” he said at
last. A wintry smile appeared upon his face. “De mortuis nil nisi
bonum….”</p><p>“Exactly,” I replied.</p><p>He moved across the room and came and sat down opposite to me. “I see
that you have all the power in this thing,” he said, and it was as if we
had been putting through some hard–fought business deal. “I want to be
quite certain of your terms. Do I understand, then, that if anything
should happen to me in the next few days, the general election would
take place unbiased either way? The Press campaign you speak of, would
that be witheld?”</p><p>“Certainly.” I stared him in the eyes. “I am concerned with justice in
this matter, not with politics.”</p><p>He got up from the table, and I rose with him. He inclined his head. “I
appreciate your position. Very well, Commander Stevenson. I will
consider what you have said.” He moved towards the door. “Perhaps you
will hear from me in London.”</p><p>I took up my hat and gloves. “There’s one thing you should know,
perhaps,” I said.</p><p>“Yes?”</p><p>I smiled. “The dancing girl of whom you spoke so sympathetically,” I
replied. “She was going to become my wife.” And with that I left him,
and went blundering down the dark stone stairs into the sunlit court.</p><p>I must have driven back to town that afternoon, because I know I spent
that evening in the club. I dined there alone, staring absently at the
portraits of the benefactors that hung upon the walls, and mechanically
eating what was put in front of me. I went up to the smoking–room after
dinner, and sat there with my whisky before the fire, staring into the
coals, and watching till they fell.</p><p>And presently, because I was very tired, and not so well, I went
upstairs and went to bed. I lay for a long time in my bare, comfortable
little room, reluctant to face the dark, listening to the rush and whirr
of the taxis passing down Pall Mall in the summer night. Then I put out
my light.</p><p>After a long time of wakefulness I raised my head, and stirred a little
on the pillow. There was water trickling all down my face and salt upon
my lips, and the bed that I was lying on was wallowing, so that I knew
that the ship was in no good shape. I opened my eyes, and I was lying in
a slop of blood and water that went streaming from me over the planking
as the vessel rolled, and back to me again. I tried to sit up then, but
somebody pressed me down from behind, and whispered: “Keep down, sir.”
And then I saw Osborne creeping towards me under the lee of the bulwarks
with a pannikin of water in his hand.</p><p>They gave it to me to drink, and I asked: “How many of us are there
now?”</p><p>And Osborne said: “There’s only us.”</p><p>I looked around the deck, and the thought came into my mind that we were
done for, and that nobody would ever know how we had died. The little
schooner was settling by the stern; it seemed to me that the whole stern
must have been blown clean out of her by the explosion of the magazine,
and most of the barrels in her hold stove in. I asked: “What’s
happening?”</p><p>And the snotty said: “They stopped the shelling ten minutes ago. They’re
practically dead ahead, sir. A little on the port bow.”</p><p>I asked what had happened to the panic party, and he said: “They’ve been
shelling the boat, sir. It’s not playing the game….”</p><p>I nodded slowly. “What armament have we got left?”</p><p>The leading seaman answered me. “The port six–pounder, and eight rounds,
sir. I don’t think there’s any more ammunition. She’ll want to be lying
broad on the beam for it to bear, the way the ship is, but the gun’s all
right.”</p><p>I could see it concealed on its mounting behind the bulwarks; it had not
been touched. I lay for a little time, feeling the rotten, sogging
movements of the vessel under us; she lay like a log, so that each swell
sluiced down the bulwarks, pretty nearly swamping her, so that each time
I thought that she would never rise again. Astern she was awash and in
the house she was on fire, smouldering and smoking where the paint store
had been. I thought of all my friends who had gone along this road in
the last years.</p><p>I said: “This is the end of us. It’s no good surrendering.”</p><p>And then the snotty whispered to me from the hawse hole; “She’s coming
round on to the beam.”</p><p>I dragged myself beside him, and looked out. The submarine was running
slowly across our bows, submerged but for the conning tower and
periscopes; from time to time the swell lifted her, and as the water
sluiced away we could see the gun. Then she went down another five feet
and was hidden but for the periscopes, and she began on a slow circle
round us. We lay absolutely motionless upon the deck.</p><p>She pressed astern of us and came up upon the starboard quarter, and
passed up alongside, distant only fifty yards away, submerged all but
the periscopes. Then she turned slowly across our bows and broke surface
almost dead ahead, according to the snotty. And when next she came into
my view she was running on the surface very slowly, perhaps two hundred
yards away, and turning to pass down our port side again.</p><p>“Come up to finish us off, I reckon,” said Wallis.</p><p>I said: “Stations for the port forrard gun. Be ready for it.”</p><p>Her speed slowed to a crawl. A man appeared in the conning tower, and
then an officer. And then in a moment there were men on her deck and
round about the gun, and I said:</p><p>“Action stations. Get to it.”</p><p>Then we were on our feet and racing for the gun. It swung up smoothly
and the breech clanged home, and I laid her on the water line below the
conning tower. The vessel rolled as I fired, and it was an over, and
almost immediately there was a blinding crash as their first shell went
home upon our forecastle. None of us were more than shaken by the blast;
we pulled ourselves together, and I laid and fired again. And that went
better, for I holed her on the water line and that shell burst inside. I
laid my next shot carefully upon their gun and it burst just below; at
that range there could be no missing, given time. With the fourth shot I
holed her once again behind the conning tower, and I think I must have
started fire inside the narrow hull, for smoke was coming out of her
towards the end.</p><p>She began to blow her tanks, and the water came foaming up around her
all white and creamy, and mingled with a little oil. She took a list to
port, and then the hatches opened forward, and then aft, and men began
to stream up on to her deck from the forward hatch, and one or two of
them were waving white things at us, shirts perhaps.</p><p>With the fifth shot there came a hitch. I swung the breech wide and the
case clanged out, but the next shell was not there, and instead of
passing it the boy was yelling some infernal nonsense of his own. And
then as I snarled at him he said: “Aren’t they surrendering?”</p><p>I ripped out an oath and a command, and he slid the shell into the bore.
I slammed the breech and swung the gun until it bore upon the forward
hatch. And that damned boy was staring at me with a sort of horror, and
I cursed at him and fired, and an inferno of flame shot up about the
hatch, and I went on loading and firing like a man possessed….</p><p>And so, with a cry of terror, I was fumbling at the door, and out into
the silent, moonlit passage, and I went down it blundering from side to
side towards something concrete that I knew, away from all the terrors
of my bed, running as though all the devils in hell were at my heels.
And by the stairs a light switched on ahead of me and checked me in my
rush, and I was shivering and in wringing sweat, and steadying myself
against the wall. And there the night porter found me.</p><p>He said quickly: “Is anything the matter, sir? I thought I heard a
crying out, downstairs.”</p><p>I passed my hand over my eyes, and stared at him. “It’s all right. I’m
sorry. I must have had a bad dream, I think.” And then I asked him:
“What’s the time?”</p><p>“Half–past three, sir.”</p><p>I was dead cold, and wringing wet with sweat. I asked: “Is there a fire
downstairs?”</p><p>He said: “I think there’s still a little fire left in smoking–room. I
could make it up if you wanted it, sir.”</p><p>I nodded. “That’s best. You might bring me a double whisky down there. I
shan’t sleep again tonight.” And so I fetched my dressing gown and went
down to the empty, silent room and sat there in my chair before the fire
till the dawn came, and long after that. Until a startled housemaid
found me sitting there as she came in to do the room.</p><p>Then I went up and had a bath, and dressed, and came downstairs an hour
later to my breakfast in the coffee–room. There was nothing in <span class="emphasis"><em>The
Times</em></span> that touched on my affair, for I went through it carefully. And
then I settled down to plan my Press campaign. I made a list of the
connections I could make in Fleet Street, and I spent a long time
planning who should launch the matter first. That day was Thursday. On
Friday afternoon, I thought, the matter should be put in train. I knew
that it would go all right.</p><p>I had all that day to kill. I cannot remember where I went or what I
did; I think that for the greater part of it I must have been wandering
aimlessly around and looking at the shops. I know that late in the
afternoon I was at the Round Pond in Kensington Gardens, and I sat there
for a long time upon a chair, watching the birds and the children with
their boats, and the swift rippling of the waves along the concrete
verge.</p><p>And presently I left that place, cold and a little tired, and went back
to the club. It was half–past six or so when I got back, and the evening
papers had come in. And picking up the first that came to hand, I saw
the news that I had been expecting all along.</p><p>It read: ‘Sad fatality at Cambridge.’ I knew the rest of it, but I read
down the column carefully. It seemed that he had fallen from his window
into the court during the night, a drop of forty feet. The theory was
put forward that he had been opening the window, and had been seized
with dizziness. It seemed quite reasonable, the way that it was put. A
short obituary followed the account.</p><p>So it was over.</p><p>I stood there with the paper in my hand, re–reading the account, and a
plump old man that I have sometimes spoken to came doddering to me and
looked over my shoulder. “I see that you are reading about poor Ormsby,”
he remarked. “So dreadfully sad. Did you ever meet him?”</p><p>“No,” I said shortly.</p><p>He went rambling on. “I used to know him slightly, just a little, you
know, but I knew his cousin very much better. She married a connection
of my own, a Colonel Wilkinson, in the Artillery, and they lived down at
Bognor now. Bognor Regis, we must call it. They used to live at
Camberley, but now they live at Bognor—Bognor Regis. I feel very much
for her. She will be broken hearted at this news—quite broken hearted.”</p><p>At that moment something in me seemed to snap, and I turned viciously on
him. “That’s all nonsense,” I said unevenly. I stared at him for a
moment. “It must be…. Nobody ever yet died of a broken heart.
That’s not one of the killing diseases….”</p><p>And with that I turned on my heel and went away to find some place where
I could be alone. I believe he spoke to the Secretary about me.</p><p>And I went in and had my dinner in the enormous, silent dining–room,
where the food is the best in London and the wine without an equal in
the country, I suppose. Where we all sit down at little separate tables
by ourselves, our backs against the wall, eating alone and talking now
and then to the ancient, friendly servants when the loneliness becomes
intolerable. That night I was restless after dinner. I had my coffee and
went wandering from room to room, picking up papers and reviews and
putting them down again, longing for some occupation for the mind.</p><p>And presently I left the club and went walking slowly up Pall Mall,
immersed in memories. Even at that time I was beginning to forget the
details which I wanted to keep by my side, and it was then that I first
thought that I must make a book of it. Which is what I have done. For I
have so little to remind me of those summer days I had, when everything
was gold and blue for me. I have not even a photograph that I could
keep. Only a few of her clothes, which I have put away carefully in one
of the wardrobes in my room, where they belong.</p><p>I turned into St James’s Street, and walked slowly up towards the
Piccadilly end. And near the top I turned and looked backwards down the
empty street to the reserved, formal Palace at the end, a symbol of
security beneath its moon–like clock. And standing there and looking
down that street it seemed to me that there was the essence of
England—stable, a little formal, and secure. And I thought that the
election that was coming would be nothing but a phase in history, a
milestone in the journey of a country which is capable of governing
itself as competently in the future as it has done in the years gone
past. The country would have a free, unbiased judgment for the choosing
of its Government, and with that I was content.</p><p class="center">*        *        *        *        *</p><p>On the next day I went back to work.</p></section><footer/></body></html>
