<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:pls="http://www.w3.org/2005/01/pronunciation-lexicon" xmlns:ssml="http://www.w3.org/2001/10/synthesis" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><head><title>Chapter 7</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook-epub.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="epubbooks.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Stylesheets Vsnapshot_9885"/><link rel="prev" href="12.xhtml" title="Chapter 6"/><link rel="next" href="14.xhtml" title="Chapter 8"/></head><body><header/><section class="chapter" title="Chapter 7" epub:type="chapter" id="id70116620941440"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h1 class="title">Chapter 7</h1></div></div></div><p>I had a long talk with Jenkinson that night in the library and put him
in possession of the facts of this affair, so far as they were known to
me. He sat listening to me in silence for the most part, detached,
critical, alert. Now and again he interpolated a searching little
question, but not frequently. At the end of it he removed his pince–nez
and sat polishing them upon his handkerchief.</p><p>“There should not be any great difficulty,” he said at last. “We must
try and persuade the young lady to give a statement to the police
tomorrow. They are entitled to that assistance in their investigations.
Under certain safeguards, both for herself and for her brother….”</p><p>He replaced his glasses. “Safeguards. I must think out the safeguards
which we can impose.”</p><p>I gave him a whisky and we went to bed.</p><p>We had a conference in the library next morning after breakfast. Mollie
was there, a little awed by the presence of the lawyer. Perhaps in
deference to him she had made herself a bit less ornamental for the
occasion; her eyelashes remained unwaxed, and in some subtle manner she
had made herself look quieter than before. It may have been that she had
less makeup on, it may have been that she was simply blending into the
surrounding of my house. I don’t know. I only know that I had expected
Jenkinson to have something of a shock when he saw what I’d picked up,
but it was I who got the shock.</p><p>He began by explaining to her again the position that she was in. In his
precise, rather meticulous way he outlined to her the inquiry which the
Criminal Investigation Department had in hand, acting on behalf of the
Civil Power. He showed her that so far the whole of the evidence
available tended to the implication that her brother must be involved in
business directed towards the provocation of a breach of the peace, if
nothing more serious. He said that he had to point out to her the
gravity of the situation in that respect, but would emphasize that there
should be no necessity for undue alarm about her brother. Similar cases
had occurred during the Irish troubles, and he cited one or two cases in
which the clemency of the crown had been directed in favour of persons
who were in a similar position in being subordinate to the main issue.
He made a point there, that such clemency was only exerted in those
cases where a genuine desire to assist the processes of the Law was
assured. At the outset of this matter, his advice was to the effect that
she should give him authority to express to the police her utmost
willingness to assist them in their investigation.</p><p>“I am sure that we shall find that this matter will go quite smoothly if
we can give them that assurance, Miss Gordon,” he said, and paused for
her reply.</p><p>She was troubled. “I don’t quite understand,” she said at last. “I’m for
Billy. Is that what you wanted me to say?”</p><p>I laughed. “No, it’s not,” I said. “We want you to tell the police all
you know about Billy.”</p><p>She stared at me in perplexity. “But then they’d catch him,” she
objected.</p><p>We moistened the lips and started again, and for a quarter of an hour I
explained to her in as simple language as I could the position that her
brother must be in, and what we wanted to do about it. She came to
understand it in the end, I think.</p><p>“You mean that’s really the best thing for me to do for Billy?” she
inquired. “Just tell them all about him?”</p><p>Jenkinson interposed: “Perhaps not quite everything. They may ask
questions that they have no right to ask, and I would not let you answer
those. We shall both be there to help you answer every question, so
there will be nothing to be afraid of. Just tell the whole truth when
they ask you anything. I’ll stop you saying anything that you ought not
to say.”</p><p>She turned to me: “You don’t think he’ll be sent to prison? You see, he
wouldn’t be doing anything bad.”</p><p>I said: “We don’t know what he is doing. But I’ll promise you this. If
any proceedings are taken against him, he shall have the best legal
defence in the country. We’ll brief Sir Dennis Scott–Neil for him, or
somebody like that.”</p><p>She eyed me searchingly. “You wouldn’t let me down?”</p><p>I met her eyes. “I won’t let you down,” I said. “This really is the best
thing to do.”</p><p>She nodded gravely, and turned to Jenkinson. “Please,” she said, “you’ll
have to tell me when to speak and when not to. You see, I don’t know
about these things.”</p><p>I glanced at Jenkinson, and he glanced back at me, and after a moment we
went on with her examination. Together we asked her what questions we
could think of, to prepare ourselves for what she might be going to tell
the police, but we found very little that I didn’t know. She knew that
her brother had been working on an all–night job, she thought
intermittently, for about a couple of months. She could give no further
indication as to how to get in touch with him. She thought he was well
paid, but who paid him she did not know. She was quite sure he wouldn’t
do anything wrong.</p><p>We came to an end of all she knew quite soon. After a short talk with
Jenkinson I crossed the room and rang up Fedden at his house.</p><p>“Good–morning,” I said. “Stevenson speaking. About this statement that
you want to get from Miss Gordon. I’ve got Jenkinson down here, and
we’ve just been through it all with her. Miss Gordon is quite ready to
tell you all she knows, under the guidance of her solicitor of course.”</p><p>He said: “I’m very glad to hear that. Norman will be back by lunchtime;
we’ll take her statement this afternoon. I see no point in taking it at
Newton Abbot. Will you bring her down to the police station here, at
three o’clock?”</p><p>I pressed the transmitter to my chest and shot a rapid question at
Jenkinson. “Certainly,” he said, “that would be quite in order.”</p><p>I lifted the transmitter. “I’ll do nothing of the sort,” I said curtly.
“Miss Gordon will see you here, in the library of my house, at two
o’clock precisely, if you please.”</p><p>He said: “That’s most unusual, you know.”</p><p>“Miss Gordon had a bad time in your police station yesterday,” I
replied, “and I’m damned if she’s going there again. I should like to
think that that was most unusual. This is a purely voluntary statement
on her part, and if you want it she is willing to give it to you at two
o’clock this afternoon. Her solicitor will be present, and you can bring
this Major Norman.” I smiled. “I’m willing to sink my prejudices so far
as to admit him to my house, on this occasion only. I should like to
make that point quite clear.”</p><p>He said stiffly: “I understand that perfectly. Very well. You can expect
us at two o’clock this afternoon.”</p><p>He rang off, and I turned to Jenkinson. “Glad I’m not a Chief
Constable,” I said.</p><p>There was nothing more that we could do until they came. We went out
into the garden; Jenkinson lives at Chislehurst and goes to his office
every day in an electric train, and grows begonias and things like that,
and takes prizes for them at the local flower show. He is a member of
the Royal Horticultural Society, I think; I only know he got me properly
tied up, so that I had to get old Robertson out of his hot houses to
answer some of the questions that he asked. Together we went round the
rose garden, a little absently on my part. I was thinking about what
would be necessary for <span class="emphasis"><em>Sweet Anna</em></span>; we had given her a new mainsail in
the previous autumn, but topsails and mizzen were getting very thin. I
had a long talk with Tillotson next day, and we decided that she ought
to have them. We gave her a new second jib, as well.</p><p>In the garden Mollie got on well with Jenkinson; he found in her an
eager audience for his rather arid little discourses upon begonias. I
had one or two things that I wanted to do in the town that day—I forget
what they were at the moment. Those two were getting on quite well
together and so I left them to it and went down to the town, wondering
as I went what questions she would ask him about me. She wouldn’t get
much out of Jenkinson, I thought. He’s too cautious.</p><p>I got back home a little late for lunch. They had waited for me, and
that made the whole programme late, so that before we had finished lunch
Fedden and Norman had arrived. It amused me to send out Rogers to show
them into the library and to keep them waiting while we sat and drank
our coffee in the dining–room. I had a score to settle with those
gentlefolk.</p><p>That wasn’t the only thing they had to put up with that afternoon. We
went into the library and settled down at the big centre table there,
and Jenkinson led off with a sour, legal little speech. In his dry way
he informed them that he was acting on behalf of both Miss Gordon and
her brother, and would continue to do so. He understood that an
examination of Miss Gordon had already been attempted in circumstances
which appeared to him to have been most irregular. He trusted that he
would have no occasion to complain of any further irregularity of that
sort. He quite understood that their business was the detection of
crime. His own business was the preservation of the integrity of the
Law. It would be unfortunate if in the pursuance of their business they
again ran contrary to his own.</p><p>He let them ask some questions then. They had brought a police sergeant
with them who took notes, and we sat for some time while they questioned
the girl, and this chap took his notes in longhand. She gave her answers
pretty well, prompted and assisted every now and then by Jenkinson.</p><p>I forget how it all went, and what they asked. I only know that none of
it was new. They asked nothing that was not obvious, and they discovered
nothing that we had not known before. The girl was quite incapable of
assisting them to find her brother; she had not the remotest notion
where he was. She could only suggest that her people up in Preston might
know something of his movements, but she didn’t think it likely that
they would. We sat there for most of the afternoon, and so far as I
could see it was an utter waste of time.</p><p>It finished up at last; the sergeant closed his notebook and they got up
to go. Jenkinson gave them a final word of warning. He told them that he
was definitely employed on behalf of Mr William Gordon, and that no
statements should be taken from that gentleman, or evidence of any sort,
until he had been informed that a solicitor had been engaged on his
behalf, and had consulted him.</p><p>They went away at last, and we went out to tea upon the terrace looking
out over the harbour. I would have asked Fedden to stay, but Norman and
the sergeant were with him and I felt I’d had my fill of the CID for the
time being.</p><p>Jenkinson wanted to catch an evening train back to town. When Rogers
brought the tea I sent him to look up trains; it was a warm, sunny
afternoon and we sat for a long time over tea, looking out over the rose
garden below. We were all a little relieved, I think, that nothing
untoward had come out during the afternoon, and glad that it was over.
Mollie and Jenkinson were gossiping away together like old friends, and
I remember that he was very decent to her in telling her that she was to
come to him in case of any further difficulty, whether she was staying
with me or not.</p><p>His train went from Newton Abbot. I drove him there in the Bentley,
leaving Mollie sitting on the terrace; she said that she was tired. I
think that may have been tact upon her part. It gave me the opportunity
of a word or two with Jenkinson, and I explained to him a little more
fully the circumstances in which I had got her down from Leeds, as we
drove.</p><p>He nodded. “A girl of a good type,” he said.</p><p>I was silent for a minute. “I’ve lived very much among my own sort all
my life,” I said at last. “It’s not a very common type, is it?”</p><p>He shrugged his shoulders. “I think you get that quiet, refined sort of
girl in every class. I used to see quite a lot of them in police work
when I was a young man. Shop assistants, typists—girls of every class.
You meet a good few barmaids of that sort. Do you see much of them?”</p><p>I shook my head. “I don’t go into bars much. A man like me has to guard
against that sort of thing.”</p><p>He smiled. “I don’t know what’s happening to the classes in this
country,” he said. “One comes on girls like this so frequently—and a
good few men, too. The only difference between them and us is that they
don’t know quite so many facts…. Behaviour’s just the same. And
that’s a mighty small difference….”</p><p>I put him into his train at Newton Abbot, thanked him for coming down,
and saw him off. Then I went back to Dartmouth to my house. I found
Mollie in the library; rather to my surprise I saw her sitting curled up
upon the chesterfield reading a large book. She laid it down carefully
as I came in, and got up to meet me.</p><p>“We got that train all right,” I said, and glanced down to see what it
was that she had been reading. It was Mortimer’s <span class="emphasis"><em>Naval History</em></span>, open
at the page which describes the action of the <span class="emphasis"><em>Jane Ellen</em></span>. I glanced at
the bookshelves, and there was a gap where she had got the volume from.</p><p>“So you’ve got hold of that,” I said.</p><p>She looked up at me, and nodded; and then she said: “Tell me, was this
really you?” She stooped and picked up the book. “I mean, in here.”</p><p>I took the book from her and glanced down the account a little absently;
she came closer and looked over my elbow at the page. “Yes,” I said at
last, “that was me. Doesn’t seem much like it now, does it?”</p><p>“I think it’s wonderful,” she breathed. And then she looked up at me and
said; “Mr Jenkinson showed it me. You don’t mind, do you?”</p><p>I smiled at her. “Lord, no,” I said. “Not after all these years. It’s
all so long ago.”</p><p>She stood there staring up at me, puzzled. “Don’t you like people to
know about it? I mean, it says here it was all so splendid, and you got
a medal.”</p><p>“There wasn’t anything splendid about it, really,” I said quietly. “Only
in the history books. It was just bloody murder.”</p><p>She stared up at me dumbly.</p><p>“I shelled them while they were surrendering,” I said. “The engagement
was over by that time.” I stared out of the window at the brilliant,
sunlit sea. “I don’t know why I did it—I never did know. There was a
boy there with me, a midshipman. He wouldn’t speak to me when we got
back to land—just cut me dead whenever we met. The funny thing is, I
don’t think he told anyone.”</p><p>I paused. “When you go and do a thing like that it makes a difference,”
I said. A herring gull came sweeping down the lawn and banked steeply
past the window in the sunshine with a little cry. I stood there
thinking of the long, similar years that I had lived in Dartmouth since
the war, living alone with my ships and with my work. “Things haven’t
been much fun since I did that,” I said quietly. “Not like they were
before.”</p><p>I glanced down at her. “Not so very splendid, was it?”</p><p>She looked up at me, and then down at the book. “I think it was
wonderful,” she said at last. “Fighting on all alone like that. Nobody
could have said anything if you’d given in, could they? I mean, when
there was only three of you left.”</p><p>I laughed. “It wouldn’t have done us much good to give in. They shelled
the panic party in the boats. We wouldn’t have stood much chance in a
surrender, and so we just stuck where we were.”</p><p>She wrinkled up her brows. “You mean that they’d have killed you if
you’d given in?”</p><p>I shrugged my shoulders. “I dare say. They’d probably have left us out
on deck when they submerged.”</p><p>She came a little closer to me. “Malcolm,” she said, and it was the
first time she had called me that, “you oughtn’t to think so much about
the bad things of the war. I mean, everyone who fought had to do bad
things, and it was the same on each side. And you only did to them what
they’d have done to you if you’d surrendered.”</p><p>I stood for a moment looking down at her. “That may be,” I said. “But it
was I who did it.”</p><p>I was touched by the insight that she had shown; I had never been able
to speak to anyone about that business as I had to her. She didn’t say
any more, and I took her by the arm and we wandered out into the garden
for a quarter of an hour before going in to dress. Passing the
strawberry bed we stopped and ate a few, and together we picked a few
more flowers for her room, although she said the ones she had would last
for ‘ever so long’. She told me how she used to make flowers last in the
Palais when she wore them in her dress with their stalks wrapped up in
cotton wool and silver paper and they kept ever so fresh for days.</p><p>Then we went up to dress.</p><p>And coming down, I found she was before me in the hall. She had changed
into the same blue dancing frock with the silver bodice that she had
worn before, that suited her dark loveliness so well. She came up to me
as I walked down the stairs, and:</p><p>“Please, Commander Stevenson,” she said, and hesitated.</p><p>I smiled at her. “Spit it out,” I said.</p><p>She didn’t laugh, but looked up at me. “Please,” she said, “I’ve just
been thinking. Now that Mr Jenkinson’s gone and the police and
everything, I’d better go back to Leeds. I thought I’d go by train
tomorrow morning, if that would be all right. I mean, you won’t be
wanting me for anything else now, will you?”</p><p>For a moment I was nonplussed. “No,” I said mechanically, “I don’t know
that there’s anything else, really.”</p><p>She stood there looking up at me, dumbly. I moved closer to her and took
one of her hands in mine; we stood there together, looking down at it.
“You can go if you like, of course,” I said. “But won’t you stay and
have your holiday with me? I’d like it awfully if you would.”</p><p>She didn’t look at me. “Are you sure you really want me here?” she said.
“Don’t you think I’d be in the way, with all your friends, and that?”</p><p>I shook my head. “I meant it when I asked you to come down here for your
holiday, that night in Leeds. It was useful for the police, but that was
only half. I meant it for you as well.”</p><p>She raised her head; she had got a colour, and her eyes were very
bright. “You mean you really want me to stay the whole time?” she said.
“Six more days?”</p><p>“Of course I do,” I said. “If it’s not too dull for you.”</p><p>She sighed happily. “It’s all so perfect here. It’s going to be the
loveliest holiday I’ve ever had.” She rippled into laughter. “Won’t
Ethel be jealous when I tell her!” Ethel was her friend who had gone to
Scarborough. “And she’ll never believe me when I tell her I’ve been
good.”</p><p>I laughed and took her arm. “I don’t suppose she will,” I said. And so
we went and dined.</p><p>I forget what we talked about at dinner that night; I only remember that
the telephone bell rang in the middle of it. I left the table and went
to it in the library, and it was Joan speaking from her house in Golders
Green.</p><p>“Is that Malcolm?”</p><p>“Speaking,” I said.</p><p>“Oh, Malcolm—this is Joan this end.” I said something polite. “What I
rang you up about was this: can we come down and spend the night with
you tomorrow—me and Philip? We’ve got a couple of days for the <span class="emphasis"><em>Irene</em></span>,
and Philip wants to have a talk with you. Oh, just one minute, he’s
here.”</p><p>Stenning came to the telephone. “Evening, Stevenson; I say, is it you
who’s been putting the CID on my track again? I had a fellow called
Norman call to see me two or three days ago—wanted to know all sorts of
things. He said I’d told you, or something. Yes, I met him once
before—not a bad cove, is he?” I sometimes think that Stenning must
know everybody in the world. “Well, what I thought was this: Joan and I
might come down in time for dinner tomorrow night, and we’d have a chat
about it before going off in the <span class="emphasis"><em>Irene</em></span>. How’s that?”</p><p>“Quite all right,” I replied. “You won’t be able to have your usual
room, though. You’ll have to put up with single ones.”</p><p>He asked: “Why’s that?”</p><p>Some things can hardly be explained over the telephone. I said: “It’s
occupied.”</p><p>I heard him laugh. “I remember when I was a young man I used to live in
sin a bit myself,” he said genially. There was a scuffling noise at the
other end; I could imagine Joan throwing a cushion at him. “That’s all
right, old boy—we quite understand.” I smiled; he had an uncanny flair
for hitting near the mark. “All right, we’ll be down in time for dinner.
Can I land in Thompson’s field?”</p><p>“I expect so. I’ll get him to clear that shed. It’s a Moth, isn’t it?”</p><p>“That’s right,” he said. “All right, I’ll see you then.”</p><p>I hung up the receiver and went back to Mollie in the dining room. “That
was my cousin and her husband,” I told her. “Speaking from London.
They’re coming down here to spend the night tomorrow.”</p><p>She stared at me in alarm. “Coming here?”</p><p>I nodded. “I think you’ll like them.”</p><p>She waited till Rogers was out of the room, then bent towards me.
“Please, Commander Stevenson,” she said, “don’t you think I’d better not
be here when your cousins come?” She paused for a moment. “I mean, it
looks so funny for you.”</p><p>I laughed. “Not half so funny as it does for you.”</p><p>She smiled. “I don’t mind a bit about me. But, I mean, it looks so awful
for you with your friends, having a strange girl in the house, and
everything.”</p><p>I buttered a bit of toast. “If my friends don’t like the way I carry on
they needn’t come,” I said phlegmatically. “I’d rather have the strange
girl, myself,” I paused. “As a matter of fact, you don’t need to worry
about these people—really. They’ll only be here for the one night, and
you’ll like Joan.”</p><p>She asked me: “What’s their name?”</p><p>“Stenning,” I said, “Sir Philip and Lady Stenning. I expect you’ve heard
about him, haven’t you? The flying man.”</p><p>She stared at me, wide–eyed. “I saw him on the pictures once. Is he your
cousin?”</p><p>“His wife is. Lady Stenning is my cousin Joan.”</p><p>“Oh—” She thought about it for a minute, and then she said: “Don’t you
think I’d better just go away while they’re here? I mean, I’m sure Lady
Stenning will think it awfully funny, won’t she?” She said: “I could
just go down and stay in the town till they’ve gone.”</p><p>“If you talk like that,” I said, “I’ll ring up and say they can’t come.”</p><p>She laughed and said I mustn’t do that, and we went on with dinner, but
I could see that she was not at ease. She talked carefully, and a little
absent mindedly, about unimportant things, but said no more about it
till the table was cleared and we rose to go into the other room. In the
hall she hesitated.</p><p>“Please,” she said, “I’ve only got this evening frock, you know, and
it’s two years old.” She looked down at it critically. “It’s terribly
grubby. Do you think it will be all right for Lady Stenning?”</p><p>I smiled. I think she thought that Joan would look at her through a
lorgnette, and that Stenning would wear a morningcoat and talk about the
League. “I wouldn’t worry about that,” I said. “They’re flying down, so
they won’t bring much stuff. I don’t suppose Joan will want to change at
all. And anyway, she hasn’t got a dinner frock that’s a patch on that
one.”</p><p>She beamed. “I’m glad you like me in it,” she said. “It was awfully
pretty, but it’s an old thing now.”</p><p>We went into the library and had our coffee sitting on the chesterfield,
and over it she told me how she had had that dress in the first instance
for a speciality dance she used to do when she was in a Palais in
Manchester, and she told me how she had altered it to make it into a
dinner frock. And from that we went on talking about dancing and music,
till at last I said: “Wouldn’t you like to play the piano a bit tonight?
I’d like it awfully if you would.”</p><p>She looked very doubtful. “I don’t play very well, and I haven’t got any
of my pieces here. I don’t think I could play anything except dance
tunes out of my head. You wouldn’t care so much about those, would you?”</p><p>“Rather,” I said. “Play <span class="emphasis"><em>Body and Soul</em></span>.”</p><p>She laughed, and slipped over to the piano. I sat over on the other side
of the room with my cigar while she crashed into the jazz melody; she
played well, with a spirit and energy which made up in that sort of
music for her occasional slips. I moved to a chair nearer the piano and
presently, warming to her work, she began to sing the words.</p><p>She had a trained voice, and for a time I wondered where she had got it
from, until I remembered her early training for the chorus. That night
she sang those dance songs with a naïve feeling that robbed them of all
crudity and gave them a new interpretation to me. She showed them to me
as the folk songs of the people that I know so little of, the working
England and America that I scarcely knew. I sat there thinking how much
I had lived apart since the war, that I knew so little of her side of
life.</p><p>The night closed down about us and I lit a reading lamp above her piano.
She sat there fingering the keys and talking to me about the songs and
dances that she knew, showing me the snap and rhythm of the airs,
telling me the steps for each. That subject was peculiarly her own. From
the semi–darkness of the hall I sat and watched her at the piano, the
slim lines of her neck and shoulders merging gently into the silver
bodice of her dress. She had gained a colour from her pleasure in the
music; in the soft light I saw that she was very beautiful.</p><p>And presently she said: “Oh, and I know another one. I do think this is
pretty; it comes out of a play called <span class="emphasis"><em>Bitter Sweet</em></span>. It’s sort of
different to the rest of them.” She played the fox trot air for a few
minutes, and then sang quietly:</p><table style="border: 0; " class="simplelist" epub:type="list"><tr><td>“I believe in doing what I can,</td></tr><tr><td>In crying when I must,</td></tr><tr><td>In laughing when I choose.</td></tr><tr><td>Heigh–ho, if love were all</td></tr><tr><td>I should be lonely!</td></tr><tr><td>I believe the more you love a man,</td></tr><tr><td>The more you give your trust,</td></tr><tr><td>The more you’re bound to lose—</td></tr><tr><td>Although, when shadows fall</td></tr><tr><td>I think if only</td></tr><tr><td>Somebody splendid really needed me,</td></tr><tr><td>Someone affectionate and dear—</td></tr><tr><td>Cares would be ended if I knew that he</td></tr><tr><td>Wanted to have me near….”</td></tr></table><p>I sat there very quiet, listening to her; she had grown absorbed in her
song. It seemed to me that I was listening to something more than a
scene out of a revue, that I was listening to a confession of the
philosophy which guided her among the various hazards of the life she
had to live. I felt that she was paying me a singular honour in singing
that to me, perhaps unconsciously.</p><p>Her voice died away into the lonely silence of my house. She dropped her
fingers from the keys and sat there motionless. “That was very
beautiful,” I said.</p><p>She turned to me, her eyes shining in the dim light. “You mean you
really thought that?—that it was nice?”</p><p>I stirred a little in my chair. “It suited you,” I said.</p><p>She sat there gazing down at me, not quite understanding what I meant.
“It’s my favourite,” she said at last. “It is pretty, isn’t it?”</p><p>She got up and closed the piano; with that song she had finished singing
for the night. I crossed to the side table where they leave my nightcap.
“You’d like a drink after all that singing,” I suggested. “What would
you like?” I eyed the table. “There’s whisky here—and lemonade. Would
you like a gin and tonic?”</p><p>She hesitated. “Do you know what I’d like—if it wouldn’t be a dreadful
trouble?”</p><p>I paused. “What’s that?”</p><p>“A cup of tea.”</p><p>I rang the bell and ordered tea, and we went through into the model
room. By the <span class="emphasis"><em>Jane Ellen</em></span> model case she stopped. “Was this the ship?”
she asked.</p><p>I nodded. “That was the ship.”</p><p>She stood there looking at the model for a long time, very still, one
hand resting on the case. And then: “It was a splendid thing,” she said.</p><p>I couldn’t argue it, and so I let her have her way. I moved over to the
window. “Tomorrow we’ll go down to the yard,” I said. “I want to show
you all my ships and things. And we’ve not bathed yet, either.”</p><p>She beamed. “I’ve got ever such a lovely bathing dress that I got last
autumn in the sales. I haven’t worn it yet—only in my bedroom before
the glass. I was keeping it for my holiday.” She paused. “It’s a lovely
colour—sort of apple green.”</p><p>She looked best in green; all the girls said so. So she had told me. “It
sounds all right,” I said.</p><p>She dimpled. “You may not like me in it.”</p><p>“I expect I shall,” I said comfortably. And so we sat there in the
half–light looking out over the harbour, and gossiped, and drank our tea
till it was time to go to bed. That night, for the first time since my
accident, I slept soundly and dreamlessly till I was called at eight
o’clock.</p><p>I saw Mollie in the garden that morning while I was shaving, coming up
from the fuzzy. She had been down to have another look at the bathing
place; so she told me while we were breakfasting. She was itching to go
in.</p><p>I’d have taken her down to bathe at once, since she seemed to be so
keen, but I had to go down to the yard that morning for an horn or so. I
made her a promise that we’d bathe before lunch; she was content, and as
we breakfasted she told me about everything that she had seen on her
morning’s walk—the birds and the flowers and the trees. She had been up
at six. Spreading my toast and marmalade, it struck me that she wasn’t
missing much.</p><p>We went down together to the yard; <span class="emphasis"><em>Sweet Anna</em></span> was still lying out in
the stream at anchor. I am a little short of quayside for the vessels
undergoing a refit; I should like to build on, but it would cost a lot.
That day there was a smack lying at the shore end of my quay and <span class="emphasis"><em>Pearl
Maid</em></span> at the outer end; we had been setting up her mizzen with new
standing gear, so that there was a great smell of Stockholm tar all
round the place. Entering the gates one can always tell what work is
going on from the smell: paint, the bark we use for tanning sails, wood
smoke, tar—all these in turn provide aroma for my yard.</p><p>Mollie came with me into the office, and sat quiet in a corner while I
did my letters; I think it was a new experience to her. It was certainly
a new one to the staff, and must have given them cause for gossip for a
week or so. Miss Soames came in and took my letters and never raised an
eyelid from her pad; Tillotson came in to talk about his cost accounts,
but took no account of Sixpence sitting in her corner trying to read the
<span class="emphasis"><em>Marine Transporter’s Journal and Monthly Advertiser</em></span>. He went away, and
I sent for Penhill to tell him that <span class="emphasis"><em>Irene</em></span> was to be ready for Stenning
by the evening and, as an afterthought, I told him that I should be
wanting <span class="emphasis"><em>Runagate</em></span> next day. Then a short talk with old Captain Sammy
Gore, of <span class="emphasis"><em>Sweet Anna</em></span>. He wanted new rudder pintles, or thought he did,
but I think it was only because some rumour had reached him far away up
on the north–east coast that we had given them to <span class="emphasis"><em>Mary Thompson</em></span> at her
last refit. I told him that <span class="emphasis"><em>Sweet Anna</em></span> was a better built vessel than
<span class="emphasis"><em>Mary Thompson</em></span>, which was nearly true and matched his own belief, and
that we’d have a look when she dried out.</p><p>Then the watchman came, as watchmen always do, to say that it wasn’t
that he wasn’t willing, but he couldn’t work miracles, and he was doing
three men’s work and not complaining, and he ought to have some help.</p><p>Then I was free to go and bathe.</p><p>I took Mollie out of the office and showed her something of my yard and
ships. We didn’t stay very long because I knew she wanted to get back;
that green bathing dress was pulling very strongly. However, I found
that she was still worrying a little about Joan and Stenning, because
she said, quite suddenly: “Please, Commander Stevenson, about this
evening. When Lady Stenning comes, do you play cards—bridge, or
anything? Because I’m afraid I couldn’t. I don’t know any card games
hardly, except Sevens.”</p><p>I thought for a moment that I’d telephone to put them off, to tell them
that they’d better sleep in the <span class="emphasis"><em>Irene</em></span> for the night. And then I
thought I wouldn’t. For some obscure reason I wanted Joan to meet her,
and there was really nothing for her to be frightened of in meeting
Joan. That wasn’t to say that I could prevent her being frightened. It
was the title that did it, of course. If Joan had been Mrs Stenning it
would all have been plain sailing.</p><p>I smiled. “They don’t play bridge,” I said. “Not unless they’re made to.
Stenning’s game is poker—he’s a tiger at that. But they won’t want to
play cards, and if they did they wouldn’t get the chance. They’ll just
sit and talk. Stenning talks about yachts and flying, and Joan talks
about water–colours and Cairn terriers.”</p><p>She looked up at me despondently. “I don’t know about either. I mean,
not to talk to anyone who does. But I do love dogs.”</p><p>“That’s good enough,” I said. “Just say that, and Joan’ll talk for
hours.”</p><p>We got into the car and went back through the town. Mollie wanted to
stop and buy a bathing cap, and wanted me to come into the ladies’
outfitters and help her choose it. Dartmouth is a small place and I am
quite well known; for many years, of course, my life has been something
of a scandal and a byeword in the little town, but always in connection
with wine, not women. It took us nearly half an hour to buy that cap and
the rest of the things she wanted; by the time we came out and got into
the car, Mollie clutching her purchases and laughing with me before all
the virtuous housewives of the town, I knew that I had added fresh
laurels to my wreath.</p><p>We drove up through the town back to my house, left the car on the
drive, and went to get our bathing things. Then we went down together
through the fuzzy; it was sunny and warm, with the wind somewhere in the
south–west so that my beach was in the lee of the cliff. The tide was
about half flood; I couldn’t have picked a better day to introduce her
to the place.</p><p>I gave her the hut to change in, and went and undressed among the trees
myself. I was ready long before she was, and I can remember sitting on
the rocks in the sun down there waiting for her and wondering how this
was going to end. I didn’t get much further with that speculation
because I had little experience to guide me; in all my life I had never
lived in such intimacy with any girl before. There’s a lot to be said
for co–educational schools, I suppose.</p><p>She came at last, looking like a coloured picture from a summer
magazine. I sat and watched her as she came towards me from the hut,
admiring her slim grace. I can see her now.</p><p>“That’s an awfully pretty dress,” I said.</p><p>She smiled. “I’m glad you like me in it.” Now that wasn’t what I said at
all, although I might have done.</p><p>She could dive a little, and chose to go in that way, near the beach. I
dived in with her on the seaward side; she was a weak swimmer and made
straight for the shore. I followed her, and in the shallows we told each
other how cold it was. One more dive, and she was ready to go and sit in
the sun; I think to her that was the best part of the game. I fetched
her towel and we sat on the warm rocks for an hour or more, sun–bathing
and watching the small traffic of the harbour mouth, the sparkling sea
in the Range, and the white surf around the chequered buoy.</p><p>There was a small cloud on the horizon still. She asked:</p><p>“Malcolm, when Lady Stenning comes, what ought I to wear? Will the coat
and skirt I’ve been wearing be all right?”</p><p>I rolled over and looked at her, and grinned. “I’d wear what you’ve got
on now, if I were you,” I said. “That suits you best of all.”</p><p>She rippled into laughter. “You are awful! I mean, really, what ought I
to wear?”</p><p>I knew that it would be all right when Joan arrived. “I’d wear something
rough and countrified, if you’ve got anything like that,” I said.</p><p>She nodded. “I’ve got a terribly old tweed skirt and a jumper, that I
had for walking in. Would that be the right thing?” She was very
doubtful. “I’ll show it you when we go up.”</p><p>I smiled at her. “Just anything you like, so long as it’s not too
smart.” She was utterly puzzled. “Don’t make her feel too dirty by
comparison. You see, she’s coming down by air—about two and a half
hours’ flight in an open machine. She’ll arrive with her face covered in
oil, or if it’s not she’ll feel as if it was. She always wants a bath
directly she arrives, when they fly down.” I paused. “And anyway, Joan
always goes about in the most awful things herself.”</p><p>“You don’t think she’ll be dreadfully smart?”</p><p>“I don’t think so,” I said.</p></section><footer/></body></html>
