<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:pls="http://www.w3.org/2005/01/pronunciation-lexicon" xmlns:ssml="http://www.w3.org/2001/10/synthesis" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"><head><title>Chapter 11</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook-epub.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="epubbooks.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Stylesheets Vsnapshot_9885"/><link rel="prev" href="16.xhtml" title="Chapter 10"/><link rel="next" href="18.xhtml" title="Chapter 12"/></head><body><header/><section class="chapter" title="Chapter 11" epub:type="chapter" id="id70116620950400"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h1 class="title">Chapter 11</h1></div></div></div><p>I found Fedden very busy with the local police officials. He broke off
for a few minutes to have a talk with me, but he could not add much to
what he had told me on the telephone. So far as he knew, Gordon had left
Gloucester and was now at Scotland Yard. He expected Norman to come down
on the next day to assist in the preparations for the arrest of the
boat. He accepted my offer of the tug, and I promised to see that she
was properly equipped for a long trip. He was not sure in what way he
would use her, and would consult with Norman about this.</p><p>He was up to his eyes in work, and so I didn’t keep him long. I went on
to my yard, and gave instructions for the tug to be filled up with fuel
oil and fitted out for a sea passage. Normally her crew consisted of the
skipper and the engineer; I didn’t quite know what to do about these
men, and told them I would see them the next afternoon.</p><p>I was getting more than a little worried over this affair. Stenning’s
warning was troubling me a bit, though Billy seemed to be in safety from
his associates. I was more concerned over the safety of my own men, the
crew of my tug. I had offered the vessel for police use; one could
hardly have refused that help. At the time I had not thought about the
crew, but obviously the vessel was no use without her crew. If she were
used for the arrest of a gun runner I might be sending my skipper and my
engineer into some danger if I sent them out with her. I had not thought
of that.</p><p>By the time that I reached home I had decided that I’d ring up Stenning
and see if he could come. I called him up in London, and got through to
him in a few minutes. He was free all the next day, and I fixed up with
him that he would come down by the early train. I didn’t want him to fly
down; it seemed to me that the less attention that was directed to this
part of the world the better for us all. I arranged to have the car to
meet the train.</p><p>Then I rang up the yard and gave instructions that <span class="emphasis"><em>Irene</em></span> should be got
up on the slip at once. That would provide a reason for his visit.</p><p>I went to look for Mollie then, and found her with old Robertson in the
garden. She had been with him all the afternoon, grubbing about in an
old pair of gloves in the herbaceous border; she loved her flowers. As I
came near she straightened up, and came and showed me what she’d done
while I had been away.</p><p>I walked back with her towards the house, and as we went I told her
about Billy. I don’t think she was very greatly interested. Throughout
the whole of this affair the politics of it made very little difference
to her; she was pleased to hear that Billy’s association with an
apparently illegal business was coming to an end, but she had no
interest in the business itself. She was far more interested in my
garden and the traffic of the harbour mouth. She told me that she had
seen two steamers coming in.</p><p>We went in and had tea together in the library. I was still worried and
absorbed in this affair, and talked to her about it for a time, but not
with much success. She told me that old Robertson had been telling her
about gannets, how they eat so much fish that they can’t fly and go
scuttering off along the water when you come near them in a boat. And so
I gave it up, content to watch her and to see that she enjoyed herself.</p><p>In any case, I was inclined to doubt if anything was going to happen
after all. The glass was going slowly down; from a long knowledge of our
local conditions it looked to me as if we were in for a spell of
continuous bad weather, probably with a gale or two from the south–east.
That would be no weather for landing anything upon a beach; it might
quite well happen that the whole affair would come to nothing.</p><p>But after tea she said a thing that startled me. “I don’t know what
they’ll be thinking of me at the Palais,” she said, a little ruefully.
“I ought to have gone back there on Sunday, but I can’t till Billy gets
right, can I?”</p><p>I fumbled mentally for my immature proposal, and put it back again. “I
hadn’t thought of that,” I said. “Will they make a lot of bother if you
stay a few days more?”</p><p>“I don’t know,” she said. “Things are generally pretty slack about this
time of year. Of course, they might turn nasty and get somebody else in
my place if I stay away.”</p><p>I nodded slowly. “You’d have to stay on here if they did that,” I said
timidly.</p><p>But she said quickly: “Oh, I couldn’t do that,” and I hadn’t the wit to
take her up and ask: “Why not?” She added: “I could always get in at
Birmingham. Mr Evans said he’d take me on any time if I was out of a
job. He’s ever so nice.”</p><p>“You needn’t really worry about that,” I said. “We can probably fix up
something between us when the time comes, both for you and Billy.”</p><p>She looked up at me. “It’s ever so good of you to take this trouble. But
we wouldn’t want any money. Only just to get started in a job again.”</p><p>I smiled. “Get you a job all right,” I said. “Even if I had to buy a
Palais to do it.”</p><p>She laughed, and said: “Oh, you are silly.” And then she said: “Just an
introduction, like, to somebody you know, would do.”</p><p>And so we left it. I went off to write letters feeling I had been a
coward. She spent a little of the time before dinner cutting and
arranging the flowers she had picked, and for the rest she sat in the
model room where I was writing, pretending to read a book but really
looking out over the Range at the darkening sea. “It’s ever so
different,” she said. “It looks all cold and grey like, now.”</p><p>“It’s like that all the winter,” I said absently, from my desk. “You
wouldn’t like it down here then.”</p><p>She said: “I think I should. It must be lovely when it’s rough.”</p><p>The dressing gong went soon after that and we went up to change. I had a
fire in the library again that night for it had grown quite cold; when I
came down Sixpence was standing before it, stretching out her bare arms
to the blaze. She wore the same blue and silver frock that she had worn
before. She had said that it was an old one, but as I came into the room
and saw her standing there before the fire it seemed to me that she was
most beautiful. To me that night she was the loveliest girl I had ever
seen in all my life.</p><p>I said: “What about a drink?”</p><p>We had our cocktails and went in to dine. I had had a fire lit in the
dining–room and we had the candles lit; outside in the grey evening the
dusk was falling early. That was an intimate dinner that we had that
night, and a good one; Rogers had done us well. I ordered up a bottle of
the Château Yquem, and we dined merrily; we had nothing to be
particularly pleased about, and yet we were very happy in the
dining–room. I close my eyes and I can see the gleaming silver and the
glass, and see the blue and silver of her frock.</p><p>We went through into the library, and sat before the fire with our
coffee and liqueur. I suggested that she play a little on the piano, but
she wanted to sit by the fire, and so we sat there talking all the
evening. She wanted to know about the world, the foreign countries that
she’d only seen upon the films. She wanted to know about my early life,
about my time in the United States and about the Amazon affair. She
wanted to know about dogs and horses, and hunting; she had never ridden
a horse.</p><p>I sat and told her about all these things, watching the play of the
firelight upon her face and neck, and the slim grace of her arms. I told
her all about my early life, the things that I had done when I was a
boy, the places I had seen, the places that I meant to see before I
died. As I sat there talking to her I seemed to slip back through the
years; I was no longer a man of middle age, stuck in his own small
groove of shipbuilding. I talked to her as if I was a young man starting
out on life, wanting to see and to experience all that life could give.
She made me feel like that.</p><p>She said, a little wistfully: “It would be wonderful to do all that.”</p><p>“My dear,” I said, “I want you to.”</p><p>It had slipped out before I knew what I was saying, so easy is it when
one isn’t bothering. She sat there very quiet in her chair, staring at
the fire. I rose and took her hand and drew her to her feet beside me in
the firelight while I said my piece.</p><p>“I want you to stay here with me,” I said as gently as I could. “This
last fortnight has been the happiest I’ve ever had. My dear, I don’t
want you to go back to dancing. It was lonely enough down here before
you came; God knows it would be lonelier if you went away.” I drew her
into my arms. “I mean, I love you, Mollie. That’s a funny sort of thing
for an old man like me to say. But it’s true, dear. I want you to stay
here for good with me.”</p><p>She rubbed her face against my dinner–jacket coat. “Oh, my dear,” she
said, quite quietly. That was all.</p><p>Ten minutes later she looked up at me, and said: “You mean we’d live
down here together, like? Just you and me?”</p><p>I bent and kissed her. “That’s right,” I replied. “I want you to stay
and marry me as soon as this is all cleared up.”</p><p>She said: “To marry you….” And then she drew herself upright in my
arms, and said: “Malcolm dear, I want to sit down and talk sensible.”</p><p>I let her go, puzzled, and we sat down again upon the chesterfield. She
took one of my hands in hers, and held it. “I couldn’t marry you,” she
said simply. “It wouldn’t do.”</p><p>There was a little silence after she said that; I was attempting to
collect myself. I fell to stroking the hand that was holding my own.</p><p>“Tell me what’s the matter,” I inquired. “Why wouldn’t it do? I think it
would do very well myself.”</p><p>She shook her head. “It wouldn’t do,” she repeated, staring into the
fire. “I know.”</p><p>She turned to me. “I don’t want you to think that this is a surprise to
me,” she said quietly, “or that I didn’t know you wanted me. You don’t
have to have been in a Palais to know that. And I have thought of what
I’d do if you told me, and if you wanted me to marry you.”</p><p>I smiled. “So have I,” I said. “This isn’t any snap decision on my part.
I’ve been thinking of it for some time. I’d like you to know that.”</p><p>She nodded slowly. “Please,” she said, “I want to tell you what I
think.”</p><p>“Of course,” I said.</p><p>She turned away and stared into the fire, but she did not withdraw her
hand. “Lots of the girls I’ve been with married fellows who came in to
dance,” she said. “And some didn’t, but just went away, and in a year or
so they’d be back again, but in some other Palais. And lots of the ones
that married, married people in quite good positions, earning a thousand
a year, some of them. And it didn’t come out right, not for them. Not
ever that I know.”</p><p>She glanced at me. “And I always thought that whatever happened to me,
I’d not do that.”</p><p>I stirred. “You mean that the families made things uncomfortable for
them?”</p><p>She nodded. “That’s right. They didn’t seem to settle right, and then
the men would get going after someone else….” She smiled at me, a
little sadly. “Not that I think that you’d go doing that on me.” She
turned away again towards the fire. “Some of them just didn’t want
anything more than the money, and they got that so they didn’t mind. But
it never came out really right—not like one’d want it to be.”</p><p>She said: “In the books, and the things you hear about men being dragged
down by marrying wrong—they do happen. And the girls that get dragged
up by marrying … I believe it’s happier not to be married at all,
when it’s like that.”</p><p>We sat for a little time in silence after she said that. I was wondering
how I could best get over this difficulty, which seemed to be so real to
her. But she went on:</p><p>“I wouldn’t know what to say to your friends, Colonel Fedden and the
rest, and they’d not know what to say to me. They’d think you’d acted
awfully funny, marrying like that.”</p><p>I drew her to me on the chesterfield. “My dear,” I said, “it wouldn’t be
like you think. You’ve met the only member of my family I care two hoots
about, and there’s nothing like that about Joan and Stenning, is there?
And, my dear, I want you for my wife.”</p><p>She sat there by me in the firelight, stroking my hand and looking down
on it. “I know you do,” she said at last. “That’s what makes it so
difficult.”</p><p>She raised her eyes to mine. “I love to think of you wanting me that
way,” she said simply. “And what I thought we might do, we might just
try it for a bit, and see how it went.” She glanced around. “I don’t
mean here. It wouldn’t do, with all your servants and that. But I
thought we could go away somewhere for a month or two, where they didn’t
know you….</p><p>“We could go to Torquay,” she said hopefully, “for a sort of holiday
together, like.” She loved that place. She eyed me doubtfully. “Would
you like that?”</p><p>I wondered absently if King Cophetua had had this sort of thing, and if
so, what he did about it. I turned to her and smiled. “We’ll go to
Torquay for our honeymoon,” I said, “or for the start of it. But it’s
going to be a proper honeymoon for us—no funny business.” I thought
about it for a minute. “I’ve never taken girls away for holidays, and
I’m too old to learn. You can’t teach an old dog new tricks.”</p><p>She laughed. “I believe you’d learn that one all right,” she said.</p><p>I shook my head. “Not me—you should start young for that. My dear, that
isn’t what I want at all. I want you to marry me in church, and be my
wife.”</p><p>She stared into the fire. “I don’t know what to say.”</p><p>We sat on like that for a long time, talking in little quiet sentences,
with great pauses in between. She was distressed that I had turned down
her solution to the difficulty, but not, I think, surprised. I could not
bring her to agree to marry me. Perhaps if I had been rough with her I
might have succeeded, but I couldn’t do that. Each time I tried we came
upon the same brick wall.</p><p>“Colonel Fedden would think you’d acted awfully funny, marrying like
that.” I cursed Fedden heartily that night. To her he represented all
the old conservatism of my family. Rather curiously, she said something
once about the pictures in the dining–room. I think she had been talking
to the servants, or old Robertson: she knew a lot about my family.</p><p>We sat there for an hour, or longer it may be, but we got no further.
There was something in her attitude which made me curiously humble in my
arguments; I could not bully her with any he–man stuff. She had no other
thought than for my interest. She was so conscious of the difference in
our upbringing, so certain that the marriage wouldn’t do me any good. I
could not get her to see my point of view. I could not make her see that
for years I have had no friends, that I have lived so much alone that
class means very little to me now. It’s different when you’re young and
live in a clique of people of your own sort; you live narrow then. But
when you get to my age and live by yourself, it’s different. When you’re
as lonely as I’ve been you get to value friends for what they are; you
get a little broader minded than you used to be.</p><p>At last:</p><p>“Let’s have a cup of tea,” I said, and rang the bell for Rogers.</p><p>She murmured composedly that that would be lovely. She was not upset, or
noticeably so. Girls are so much stronger than men are in many ways;
that night she sat and talked about this quietly, restrained. And her
case was quite clear. She would not bind me with a marriage—that was
how she looked at it—till we had lived together for a time.</p><p>“People don’t see things right when they’re in love,” she said, a little
sadly. “I know.”</p><p>Rogers brought the tea, and we sat and drank it as if this evening had
been ordinary. I could see no way out of this impasse except with time;
in a few days I thought perhaps she’d change her mind, and I could bring
her to my point of view. And so when we had drunk our tea I raised her
to her feet, and said:</p><p>“My dear, I’m not going to worry you, or nag about this any more. Let’s
go to bed—and I mean go to bed alone, too.” She smiled at that. “We’ll
argue this out later, when this other thing’s all straightened up. But
till then, I want you to know that I love you. That … that’s all.”</p><p>She took my hand and kissed the back of it. “I don’t know what to say
…” she said at last, very softly. And so we stood like that together
for a minute till I sent her up to bed.</p><p>Next morning I reviewed the situation as I dressed. Stenning was coming
down, and would be with me by the afternoon. By the afternoon I expected
to hear something of Norman and Billy; I rang up Fedden after breakfast,
and found that he did not know when they were likely to arrive. He
thought not till nightfall perhaps. He had all arrangements in hand, so
that there was plenty of time.</p><p>As regards Mollie, there was nothing I could do till this thing was
cleared up. I did not think she would go back up North; we had this
common ground, at any rate, that it was better for us both to be
together. I thought that if I left things for a day or two till the
immediate rush of this affair was over it would give her time to think
about it, and I hoped that then I should be able to persuade her to my
point of view.</p><p>If not—well, I should have to come to hers. At the end of our
honeymoon, I thought, she’d probably agree to marry me….</p><p>I went down to the yard that day and took Mollie with me in the car.
They were getting <span class="emphasis"><em>Irene</em></span> up on the patent slip when I got there; we
stood and watched them till the vessel slowly slid up out of the water
on the traveller. Mollie was amazed.</p><p>“She’s ever such a size underneath the water, isn’t she?” she remarked.
“You’d never think!”</p><p>I gave instructions for them to start on scraping her; there was nothing
the matter with her seams. Then I put Sixpence in a pram and she went
paddling around the harbour, while I went into the office and went
through my letters; an hour later I went round the yard and had a look
at the <span class="emphasis"><em>Sweet Anna</em></span>’s rudder with old Sammy Gore. His pintles were all
right, to his regret I think, but he succeeded in wheedling a lot of
unnecessary running gear out of me, and a new stove for the galley.</p><p>That took me all the morning. Coming off on to the quay I looked about
for Sixpence, and saw the pram alongside <span class="emphasis"><em>Runagate</em></span>. I took the quay
punt and went off to her; she put her head up from the forecastle hatch
as I came up alongside. “I’ve been looking at the boat,” she informed
me. “It is funny in this little cooking place.”</p><p>I dropped down through the hatch beside her in the forecastle. “There’s
plenty of room to cook sitting down,” I said. “And anyway, you can reach
everything.”</p><p>She stared round. “It’s sort of cosy,” she remarked at last. “I never
knew ships were like this inside.” She stared through at the bulkheads
of the saloon. “All this polished wood….”</p><p>We went up through the forehatch and sat upon the bitts for a few
minutes, smoking a cigarette. “It’s ever so lovely here,” she said at
last. “The ships, and things.”</p><p>I blew a cloud, and laughed at her. “You’d better stay here, then,” I
said. “It’s up to you!”</p><p>She laughed with me. “You must think me ever so soft,” she said.</p><p>I shook my head. “I don’t.”</p><p>She said: “Don’t let’s talk about it now.” And a little later on she
said: “It would be lovely to live here, with the ships and the seabirds,
and all.” She turned to me: “Do you know, I feel as if I’d lived here
all my life, and my father and mother and all before. Just as if I’d
been brought up here….” She sat there staring up the river. “As if
I knew what was up there, round the bend, with the river and the
sea–shore in the middle of the land, like.”</p><p>I nodded slowly. “I expect you do,” I said absently. I knew just what
she meant. Where a long estuary runs into the land, an estuary with a
rocky bottom, you do get just what she had spoken of—the sea–shore in
the middle of the land. Little sandy beaches all among the hayfields and
the woods. She knew it all, and yet I had not taken her up there.</p><p>We went ashore and got into the car, and drove up to the house. And as
we went indoors she said to me:</p><p>“Is Lady Stenning coming down this afternoon?”</p><p>I shook my head. “Just Philip. Why?”</p><p>She turned away. “I think I’d like to have a talk with her,” she said
quietly. “She was ever so nice to me.”</p><p>I took her hand and smiled at her. “My dear,” I said, “don’t worry about
it now. Leave it for a couple of days till this other thing has quieted
down, and then we’ll have a talk about it, and you can see her and hear
what she has to say.”</p><p>“All right,” she said, “if that’s the best.”</p><p>I rang up Fedden after lunch and had a talk with him. He told me that
Norman was coming down that night with Gordon, in readiness for the
events of the following day. He said that they would not arrive till
after dark—he thought about eleven o’clock at night. There were to be
considerable movements of police in preparation for the landing, and it
had been arranged that these movements should take place at night, to
obviate the risk of a leakage of information. He asked if Gordon might
remain in my house for the time being. He suggested that he should be
brought straight there that night.</p><p>I said that that would be agreeable to me, and I mentioned to him that
Stenning was coming down. I asked him what he wanted done about the tug.</p><p>He replied that he could not say definitely what the plans would be till
he had had a talk with Norman. Could we arrange about the tug that
night, after Norman came?</p><p>I frowned. “You mean tonight—after eleven o’clock?”</p><p>He said that they would probably be working all night. He had been up
most of the previous night, and was going to snatch a little sleep after
tea, if possible.</p><p>“All right,” I said. “You’d better come up here with him when you send
Gordon. You’d better all come up, and talk about it here. You’ve got to
bring up Gordon, anyway.”</p><p>“That’s very good of you,” he said.</p><p>“Not at all. I’ll expect you about half–past eleven, or some time like
that?”</p><p>He agreed that that would be about the time, and I rang off.</p><p>I remember glancing at the barograph as I set down the telephone. It had
gone down again and this time rather sharply: in the Range an on–shore
wind was getting up.</p><p>Stenning arrived a little later in the afternoon, and I took him down to
see his vessel on the slip. That was the ostensible purpose of his
visit, and I thought it was as well that it should be carried out in
full. As we pottered about the yard I told him all that had been going
on; I found him intensely interested. He was worried that I had asked
the police up to my house, that I had offered to take in Gordon. I
expostulated with him over that, and he listened patiently to what I had
to say.</p><p>“I see your point,” he said at last. “It’s probably as well to have
Gordon. But if the police have got to have a meeting they should have it
in their own place. I don’t see that you want them in your house
particularly.”</p><p>We went up to the house and dined with Mollie, changing into dinner
jackets. She had been walking in the town that afternoon while we had
been away, looking at the shops and exploring the streets and quays. She
was especially intrigued by a crew of cadets that she had seen down on
the water front, sailing a Navy cutter. She thought they looked ever
such nice boys….</p><p>And afterwards she sang to us. We sat in the darkened library, Stenning
in a chair beside the fire, and Mollie at the piano in a little pool of
light. I sat over by her as she played and sang the lyrics that she
knew, the dance songs that were folk tunes of the young. We made no
pretence. It must have been quite obvious to Stenning that we were
deeply in love; he sat apart and puffed at his cigar, and took but
little notice of us at the other end of the room. Joan had probably been
talking to him and he accepted us for what we may have been—a pair of
silly fools behaving as if this had been our first calf love.</p><p>Presently she was tired of singing, and we went over to him by the fire.
I ordered the whisky and her tea, and we sat drinking this together,
chatting of ships and of the flights that he had made, and ventures that
he hoped to make. We sat there for a long time talking in that way, till
at last we heard a car, and it was Fedden and his crowd.</p><p>I took them into the dining–room, as being more suitable for the meeting
that we had to hold. I had had a few sandwiches and whisky placed upon
the table, and a writing pad. The room was brightly lit. The curtains
were drawn over the east window looking out over the harbour mouth, but
the alcove with the oriel north window was uncurtained. That window
looks out on to the north lawn.</p><p>There was Fedden and Norman and a police superintendent that they had
brought with them, Gordon, and Mollie, and myself, and Stenning. We
started the proceedings with a drink, standing beside the table before
sitting down. I was with Stenning and Norman, talking to Fedden; Mollie
and her brother were a little way apart.</p><p>Till Norman put his glass down, and remarked: “I think we’d better get
to work.”</p></section><footer/></body></html>
