<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>Count total number of N digit numbers such that the difference between sum of even and odd digits is 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css" />
</head>
<body>
<div id="count-total-number-of-n-digit-numbers-such-that-the-difference-between-sum-of-even-and-odd-digits-is-1" class="section level1">
<h1>Count total number of N digit numbers such that the difference between sum of even and odd digits is 1</h1>
<p>Given a number n, we need to count total number of n digit numbers such that the sum of even digits is 1 more than the sum of odd digits. Here even and odd means positions of digits are like array indexes, for exampl, the leftmost (or leading) digit is considered as even digit, next to leftmost is considered as odd and so on.</p>
<p>Example</p>
<pre><code> 
Input:  n = 2
Output: Required Count of 2 digit numbers is 9
Explanation : 10, 21, 32, 43, 54, 65, 76, 87, 98.

Input:  n = 3
Output: Required Count of 3 digit numbers is 54
Explanation: 100, 111, 122, ......, 980
 </code></pre>
<p><strong>We strongly recommend you to minimize your browser and try this yourself first.</strong></p>
<p>This problem is mainly an extension of <a href="http://www.geeksforgeeks.org/count-of-n-digit-numbers-whose-sum-of-digits-equals-to-given-sum/">Count of n digit numbers whose sum of digits equals to given sum</a>. Here the solution of subproblems depend on four variables: digits, esum (current even sum), osum (current odd sum), isEven(A flag to indicate whether current digit is even or odd).</p>
<p>Below is Memoization based solution for the same.</p>
<pre><code> 
// A memoization based recursive program to count numbers
// with difference between odd and even digit sums as 1
#include&lt;bits/stdc++.h&gt;
 
using namespace std;
 
// A lookup table used for memoization.
unsigned long long int lookup[50][1000][1000][2];
 
// Memnoization based recursive function to count numbers
// with even and odd digit sum difference as 1.  This function
// conisders leading zero as a digit
unsigned long long int  countRec(int digits, int esum,
                               int osum, bool isOdd, int n)
{
    // Base Case
    if (digits == n)
        return (esum - osum == 1);
 
    // If current subproblem is already computed
    if (lookup[digits][esum][osum][isOdd] != -1)
        return lookup[digits][esum][osum][isOdd];
 
    // Initialize result
    unsigned long long int ans = 0;
 
    // If current digit is odd, then add it to odd sum and recur
    if (isOdd)
      for (int i = 0; i &lt;= 9; i++)
          ans +=  countRec(digits+1, esum, osum+i, false, n);
    else // Add to even sum and recur
      for (int i = 0; i &lt;= 9; i++)
          ans +=  countRec(digits+1, esum+i, osum, true, n);
 
    // Store current result in lookup table and return the same
    return lookup[digits][esum][osum][isOdd] = ans;
}
 
// This is mainly a wrapper over countRec. It
// explicitly handles leading digit and calls
// countRec() for remaining digits.
unsigned long long int finalCount(int n)
{
    // Initialize number digits considered so far
    int digits = 0;
 
    // Initialize all entries of lookup table
    memset(lookup, -1, sizeof lookup);
 
    // Initializa final answer
    unsigned long long int ans = 0;
 
    // Initialize even and odd sums
    int esum = 0, osum = 0;
 
    // Explicitly handle first digit and call recursive function
    // countRec for remaining digits.  Note that the first digit
    // is considered as even digit.
    for (int i = 1; i &lt;= 9; i++)
          ans +=  countRec(digits+1, esum + i, osum, true, n);
 
    return ans;
}
 
// Driver program
int main()
{
    int n = 3;
    cout &lt;&lt; &quot;Coutn of &quot;&lt;&lt;n &lt;&lt; &quot; digit numbers is &quot; &lt;&lt; finalCount(n);
    return 0;
}
 </code></pre>
<p>Output:</p>
<pre><code> Count of 3 digit numbers is 54 </code></pre>
<p>Thanks to <a href="http://qa.geeksforgeeks.org/user/Mr.Lazy">Gaurav Ahirwar</a> for providing above solution.</p>
<p>Please write comments if you find anything incorrect, or you want to share more information about the topic discussed above</p>
<p><br /></p>
<div id="source-71" class="section level3">
<h3>Source</h3>
<p><a href="http://www.geeksforgeeks.org/count-total-number-of-n-digit-numbers-such-that-the-difference-between-the-sum-of-even-digits-and-odd-digits-is-1/" class="uri">http://www.geeksforgeeks.org/count-total-number-of-n-digit-numbers-such-that-the-difference-between-the-sum-of-even-digits-and-odd-digits-is-1/</a></p>
<p><span>Category: <a href="http://www.geeksforgeeks.org/category/c-programs/">Misc</a></span> <span>Tags: <a href="http://www.geeksforgeeks.org/tag/dynamic-programming/">Dynamic Programming</a></span></p>
<p><br /></p>
<p>Post navigation</p>
<p><span class="nav-previous"><a href="http://www.geeksforgeeks.org/intuit-interview-set-9-on-campus/"><span class="meta-nav">←</span> Intuit Interview | Set 9 (On-Campus)</a></span> <span class="nav-next"><a href="http://www.geeksforgeeks.org/usas-love-for-indian-ceos/">USA’s Love for Indian CEOs <span class="meta-nav">→</span></a></span></p>
<p>Writing code in comment? Please use <a href="http://code.geeksforgeeks.org/">code.geeksforgeeks.org</a>, generate link and share the link here.</p>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>

